What type of organism is commonly used in prepa...
What phenomenon makes global winds blow northea...
Changes from a less-ordered state to a more-ord...
What is the least dangerous radioactive decay? ...
Kilauea in hawaii is the world’s most continuou...
When a meteoroid reaches earth, what is the rem...
What kind of a reaction occurs when a substance...
Organisms categorized by what species descripto...
   Alpha emission is a type of what? radioactivity
What is the stored food in a seed called? endos...
Zinc is more easily oxidized than iron because ...
What is controlled by both genes and experience...
What tells you how much of the food you should ...
What are used to write nuclear equations for ra...
What is controlled by regulatory proteins that ...
Boron only occurs naturally in compounds with w...
What organ systems link exchange surfaces with ...
What occurs when the immune system attacks a ha...
Fertilization is the union of a sperm and egg, ...
The plants alternation between haploid and dipl...
Most of the chemical reactions in the body are ...
What is the termination of a pregnancy in progr...
Cutting down on the use of chemical fertilizers...
Which muscles allow your fingers to also make p...
Testing what usually requires making observatio...
This sharing of electrons produces what is know...
Water molecules move about continuously due to ...
A small scale version of what type of map displ...
What is defined as a change in the inherited tr...
What hormone, which is associated with luteiniz...
Where do angiosperms produce seeds in flowers? ...
In order to create food, what do photosynthetic...
What type of vertebrates are birds? endothermic...
What type of ions do ionic compounds contain? p...
All living things need air and this to survive?...
     The cells of all eukarya have a what? nucleus
What type of plate boundaries produce huge moun...
Interstitial carbides are produced by the react...
Fungus-like protist saprobes play what role in ...
What are the sites of protein synthesis or asse...
What must replicate in the cell cycle before me...
What phenomenon is primarily the result of plat...
What is a group of neuron cell bodies in the pe...
Where does most of our food come from? angiosperms
Gases are most ideal at high temperature and wh...
Hard igneous rocks and easily dissolved sedimen...
A diet rich in calcium and what vitamin may red...
How many people die from air pollution each yea...
What substances serve as catalysts in most of t...
The formation of an amalgam allows the metal to...
A pulley changes the direction of the force t e...
What is the name of the small bumps that contai...
In the absence of air resistance, all falling o...
The ability for a plasma membrane to only allow...
In the presence of oxygen, hydrogen can interac...
What galaxy is our solar system a part of? milk...
The angle at which light bends when it enters a...
Whether the organism is a bacterium, plant, or ...
Increasing the temperature of n2 molecules incr...
Which radio frequency should you listen to if y...
What form of radiation is the energy emitted by...
     What is the suns innermost layer called? core
A growth spurt requires constant divisions of w...
What's the term for the gradual progression fro...
Fungi may form mutualistic relationships with p...
Which cycle tracks the flow of nitrogen through...
What consequence of a tornado is responsible fo...
What are the only truly innate behaviors in hum...
What happens to the density of air as the altit...
How do some animals change their depth? by chan...
What phenomenon is crowding out other species a...
Dessication is an extreme and usually fatal for...
Internal and external forms of what life proces...
The fossil record shows that this type of event...
Soluble minerals and clays accumulate in what s...
What is the common word for potential differenc...
How many chambers does the stomach of a crocodi...
When populations get close to the carrying capa...
Although air can transfer heat rapidly by conve...
Most plants grow continuously, except for what ...
What man-made devices in space are used to obse...
Carboxylic acids are weak acids, meaning they a...
An endocrine disease usually involves the secre...
In experiments with garden peas, austrian monk ...
Nutrition and diet affect your metabolism. more...
What are unsaturated hydrocarbons with at least...
         What is the opposite of melting? freezing
A unique characteristic of mammals is the abili...
Most of the pathogens that cause stis enter the...
The activation of what kind of buds induces bra...
Sexual reproduction involves haploid gametes an...
All alkanes are composed of carbon and hydrogen...
What percentage of men suffer from some form of...
What secures together immovable joints and prev...
Transform faults are the site of massive what? ...
When water goes above and below its freezing po...
The diatoms are unicellular photosynthetic prot...
What type of reactions form compounds? chemical...
Millions of years ago, plants used energy from ...
What is the term for the process in which livin...
In a chemical reaction, the amounts of reactant...
What protects a developing flower while it is s...
What is the term for the force of attraction be...
What are the long, thin protein extensions in m...
Dialysis is a treatment for failure of what org...
What preventive measure can protect even young ...
Renal plasma flow equals the blood flow per min...
What does lattice energy of an ionic solid meas...
How many different types of taste can be detect...
    What species do humans belong to? homo sapiens
Titration is a method to determine what in acid...
How many different amino acids make up proteins...
What are sores in the lining of the stomach or ...
In some species, what has led to the evolution ...
What structure is made from dna and protein mol...
What renewable energy source converts energy fr...
The radial artery and which artery parallel the...
The bones of the skull are connected by what ty...
What is the lowest layer of the atmosphere? tro...
What is the name of the type of plant tissue co...
Phosphate-containing ocean sediments form prima...
What does erosion do to pieces of broken rock? ...
The passing of traits from parents to offspring...
In a glass of sweet tea the sugar is known as t...
A few earthquakes take place away from plate bo...
Red litmus paper turns what color when placed i...
The difference between the theoretical half-rea...
While the egg is developing, other changes are ...
The neural plate undergoes a series of cell mov...
Due to the __________ nature of the lipids that...
In what way do all vertebrates reproduce? sexually
First, high temperature denatures proteins and ...
What term is used to describe a collection of m...
By allowing blood levels of a hormone to be reg...
Collagen fibers, elastic fibers, and reticular ...
What the name of the disease where some of the ...
What occurs when groups from the same species s...
What environment do animals with gills live in?...
What is the boiling and freezing point of water...
What are living things that obtain glucose by e...
Virtually every task performed by living organi...
The binding of what helps eliminate antigens by...
What muscles are used to pump water over the gi...
Compounds like sodium chloride form structures ...
What are made of long chains consisting almost ...
When a series of measurements is precise but no...
Inserting copies of normal genes into a patient...
What type of reproduction usually occur during ...
All forms of energy can be interconverted. thre...
What science includes many fields of science re...
What are alloys that are mostly composed of mer...
What are made from highly reflective metal that...
What do ranchers fear will happen if wolves ret...
    How many types of surface waves are there? two
What is the rigid layer that is found outside t...
Surface tension of alveolar fluid, which is mos...
What type of tumor mostly does not cause seriou...
What supports and protects the soft organs of t...
What celestial body is the earth’s main source ...
What do you call the horizontal stems of a stra...
Glaciers are incredibly powerful agents of what...
What type of pressure is the pressure exerted b...
What helps the plasma membrane keep its shape? ...
What type of reproduction only involves one par...
What is defined as a repeating series of events...
How metalloids behave in chemical interactions ...
What distinguishing characteristic of annelid a...
The spermatids are transported from the testes ...
How does water from roots reach the leaves? wat...
As a polycrystalline material solidifies, grain...
Motors are the most common application of magne...
What makes and stores pigments that give petals...
What term is used to describe when a liquid is ...
When electrons return to a lower energy level, ...
  What is another term for nearsightedness? myopia
What are the areas located at fixed distances f...
In which state of matter do particles take the ...
Runoff is likely to cause more what if the land...
        Cations have what type of charge? positive
What organ is subdivided into ascending, descen...
Ammonia, urea, and uric acid are examples of wh...
        What are variants of genes called? alleles
Mushrooms are an example of what type of organi...
Comparing what sequences provides clues to evol...
What is a measure of the average amount of ener...
What is the minimum mass capable of supporting ...
Many hydrocarbons are cyclic and adopt specific...
The secondary wall contains _________ , a secon...
What does the cell cycle do? divide and reprodu...
Inside the nasal area of the skull, the nasal c...
Bacteria can be chemotrophs, which obtain what ...
Habitat loss, introduced species, overharvestin...
What "plumbing" structures inside the veins mai...
What do we call the cartilaginous structure tha...
What is the process of the transfer of pollen f...
Despite its small size, an erythrocyte contains...
How many variables are used to describe the con...
What is a suggested explanation for a phenomeno...
Land plants are classified into two major group...
What type of treatment is necessary for anaphyl...
What substances, which are distinct from acids ...
What is the name for biochemical compounds that...
What are the ionic compounds that produce negat...
The atomic number of tungsten is 74. therefore,...
What is the apparatus used for carrying out an ...
What two ways may light be transmitted? refract...
Triggered by changes in the environment, migrat...
What pair of tubes that extends toward the ovar...
In most animals, what sense is related to balan...
Terminal pods are located at the end of what? s...
What forms when the spores from two parents fus...
What is the name of the galaxy we live in? milk...
What are the most common seedless vascular plan...
In a monogamous pairing, a male individual is g...
What is a mass spectrometer used to measure? re...
What combines sets of genes from two different ...
Global warming will raise ocean levels due to m...
What are groups of young stars loosely held tog...
What does a pollinator pick up from its body an...
What is formed when an oxygen atom picks up a p...
What does the driving of turbines by the heatin...
What is a device that changes kinetic energy to...
How many naturally occurring elements are known...
What are the two types of vesicle transport cal...
What do you call a species that has died out in...
Where does the embryo develop in a plant? insid...
What is the method of setting or correcting a m...
What property of warm air causes it to rise abo...
Which branch of biology studies animal behavior...
What unit of measure is equal to the amount of ...
What organism is characterized by an incomplete...
What term is not the same as energy, but means ...
What specific part of the african violet is use...
What are fibers that depend on aerobic respirat...
Which form of electromagnetic waves have more e...
Something that has all of the characteristics o...
What do the letters in our blood types represen...
The two stages of photosynthesis are the light ...
  What do living things need to survive? nutrients
The denser regions of the electron cloud are ca...
In studying energy, what term do scientists use...
To measure what changes that occur in chemical ...
A system in what state cannot spontaneously cha...
What is a species that plays an especially impo...
What term that shows how fast a population is g...
The rings of what planet can be easily seen fro...
         What planet is a blue green color? uranus
The simplest class of organic compounds is the ...
Some meteorites are made of iron and nickel and...
Which pathway carries somatosensory information...
The amount of kinetic energy in a moving object...
Cycling, shoveling snow and cross-country skiin...
What take the shape of their container, and are...
                   What is moving air called? wind
What property makes bone marrow cells ideal for...
What is the name of the two metalloids in the c...
What is the name of the zone where water is dee...
Diagnosing and treating cancer is a beneficial ...
Many adults and some children suffer from a def...
Three-prong plugs, circuit breakers, and gfci o...
Catabolic reactions break down large organic mo...
In qualitative analysis, reagents are added to ...
While climate change in earth history was due t...
What is the simplest life cycle? haploid life c...
       What keeps the moon orbiting earth? gravity
What are formed by the attraction between oppos...
What produces hormones that directly regulate b...
Comparing anatomy, and characterizing the simil...
What is the second most abundant element in the...
Which kind of genetics approach involves mutati...
More than half of all known organisms are what?...
For what purpose does liver use the excess carb...
Saturn is made mostly of helium and what else? ...
What are alkenes organic compounds that contain...
Electrons in covalent compounds are shared betw...
What is the resistance of a liquid to flow call...
The mass of atoms is based on the number of pro...
   Where do polychaete worms live? the ocean floor
What is the study of how and why plants and ani...
Muscles that position the pectoral girdle are l...
What are the two major types of seed plants cal...
What do we call the energy-rich product of phot...
How is oxygen transferred into the bloodstream?...
Ringworm and athlete's foot are human diseases ...
What is the measure of the change in the veloci...
What is the usual treatment for acute bronchiti...
What are generally divided into prosimian and n...
The creation and destruction of oceanic crust i...
What is the concept by which two species within...
A turbine that spins a generator will produce? ...
Meiosis in the sporophyte produces haploid cell...
In this type of reaction, an element replaces a...
What are the two distinct types of cells found ...
What category of elements are chacterized by th...
Angiosperms are also known as what? flowering p...
An estimated 100 trillion of these live in the ...
The ability to regulate what, which is possesse...
What is the term for very large arrays of tande...
What kind of map can show the features of the b...
What evolved, adapted response to resource avai...
When animals get rid of their gaseous waste, wh...
What is another name for composite volcanos? st...
Fossil records support the idea that periods of...
What type of winds occur when air is forced ove...
What do clouds trap into the atmosphere at nigh...
A nerve cell that carries messages is called a?...
What group of animals are the largest arthropod...
What term describes a collection of similar cel...
Most biochemical molecules are macromolecules, ...
The name of a spinal cord region corresponds to...
Tests for levels of what in blood allow a diabe...
The process of breaking down food into nutrient...
Reasoning can be broken down into two categorie...
What are used to make maps of the moon and othe...
What term describes how closely packed the part...
Populations of viruses do not grow through cell...
What is likely to happen to a parasite if it ki...
What is a type of solid that lacks an ordered i...
What is it called when you get the same result ...
             What is the largest human organ? skin
In the chest, the trachea divides as it enters ...
Many objects have color because they contain wh...
What is the process of action potentials in mye...
What do craters and rifts become when the fill ...
What kind of power does not produce any polluta...
What is the long, narrow tube that carries food...
What is the temperature at which condensation o...
Alkenes have double bonds while alkynes have wh...
  What is our main source of aluminum ore? bauxite
Rapidly produced genetic vairants are found in ...
What are the 2 primary hosts of ebola in centra...
Unlike prokaryotic cells, dna and rna synthesis...
What important organelle (that would otherwise ...
What is the outer layer of an axon that acts li...
What occurs when some members of a species beco...
What creatures evolved from a lobe-finned lungf...
What is the term for a mixture of two or more s...
What are flagellate protozoa that cause giardia...
Rna and dna are types of what biochemical compo...
What are the contacts between neurons called? s...
What is the color of the powder of a mineral? s...
What basic plant structure facilitates dispersa...
 What type of compound is essential to life? water
Which part of the ear amplifies the sound waves...
The shape of a virus is determined by the type ...
What is the rising and sinking of warm and cool...
What is a group of connected cells that have a ...
The number of what subatomic particles can vary...
Water is recycled constantly through which syst...
The process in which organ systems work to main...
What do scientist's believe mercury's core is m...
What material comprises the sun and other stars...
The function of which organ is to filter blood ...
The attraction between all objects in the unive...
Friction causes the molecules on rubbing surfac...
The cell wall acts as an extra layer of protect...
What's another term for egg-laying mammals? mon...
What code is the same in all living things and ...
All animals that derive energy from food are cl...
Through which process is the human gene for ins...
What is a symbiotic relationship in which both ...
What is the term for longer chains of monosacch...
Electrical potential energy can be described by...
What are broad explanations that are widely acc...
What process is at work when warm air or water ...
If force is applied further away from a pivot p...
The kinetic-molecular theory as it applies to g...
During photosynthesis, what is energy from the ...
Formic acid is found in the secretions of? stin...
What do hydrophilic substances have an affinity...
What is a structure that consists of two or mor...
What is formed when amino acids are linked toge...
Both diffusion and effusion are related to the ...
Baroreceptors in the aortic arch and carotid si...
The electronegativity of an element increases w...
Animals require air, water, and what in order t...
          How many types of bosons are there? four
What astronomical phenomenon, formed of split a...
An electron possesses both particle and these? ...
What are mutant versions of normal genes called...
The heart and a network of blood vessels that r...
When a predator kills and eats its prey, what s...
Pressure, volume, and temperature are related b...
Different forms, or allotropes, of carbon are d...
What is the process in which organisms reproduc...
What is the force of attraction between things ...
Mitosis and meiosis are two types of what proce...
Zinc reacting with hydrochloric acid produces b...
Water gains and loses what more slowly than doe...
Covalent solutes separate into what when dissol...
What term indicates moles per liter, whereas mo...
Many of the hormones are secreted in response t...
What are two of the most common vision problems...
Hydrochloric acid is formed when hcl is dissolv...
Atoms of the same element that have different m...
What term is used to describe potential energy ...
What property is characterized by eddies and sw...
What process refers to a separation of charge w...
What is the largest cartilaginous fish? whale s...
Capillaries in the chorionic villi filter fetal...
What is the term for a random change in allele ...
Aerobic exercise helps improve the cardiovascul...
An excessive posterior curvature of the thoraci...
What are the two main divisions of the human ne...
What is composed of two strands of nucleotides ...
The body is made up of how many types of tissue...
The great astronomer edwin hubble discovered th...
What is friction that acts on objects while it ...
Traditionally, mammals were divided into groups...
What type of bonds do alkanes only contain? car...
Which part of the wave helps make the wave bend...
What are passed from one generation to the next...
What kind of lines does a diffraction grating p...
Which type of ferns have yellow sporangia and n...
Ice masses, acquifers, and the deep ocean are e...
This heat is used to convert water into steam, ...
What atmospheric layer lies above the highest a...
Where are sensors for thermoregulation concentr...
What is the first step in the breakdown of gluc...
               What charge do atoms carry? neutral
The pleura that surrounds the lungs consists of...
Organisms that obtain food from outside themsel...
In scientific investigations, descriptive stati...
The process of the cytoplasm splitting apart an...
What kind of mountainous formation can often be...
Because it can be controlled intentionally, ske...
What effect in the atmosphere ensures that the ...
Felsic, intermediate, mafic, and ultramafic are...
What is the base of nearly all food chains on e...
The skull is a part of a vertebrate endoskeleto...
The global pattern of precipitation is influenc...
What is the name of the region of a magnet that...
How many major forces of elevation cause allele...
 Where in the atom is a neutron found? the nucleus
In physics, what is defined as the average kine...
What organelles are known as the "power plants"...
Dalton's law and henry's law both describe aspe...
   What vesicles store neurotransmitters? synaptic
What temperature scale is obtained by adding 27...
Hemoglobin is a large molecule made up of prote...
A new species is said to have evolved if separa...
What term describes the orientation of a body l...
What happens to energy when an atom gains an el...
What is the name of the second most electronega...
What is the term for species evolving together?...
            Where do the eggs develop? the ovaries
 What's the other term for your wind pipe? trachea
When food is scarce, starving cells secrete a m...
What do cells secrete that binds to receptors? ...
What is the term for the tube that carries soun...
In the cardiovascular system, what blood vessel...
Molecules in the gas phase can collide with the...
What guards the opening between the right atriu...
The water cycle involves movement of water betw...
When we consider a chemical reaction, we need t...
What is a layer of tissue that lies between the...
In what country can some of the largest natural...
What are the primary producers in terrestrial b...
    Where are aerofoils found? birds and airplanes
          What is the si unit for pressure? pascal
Marine fishes take in divalent ions by incessan...
The simplest and smallest particle of matter th...
Frequency and intensity are two measurable prop...
While most mammals give birth to live young, mo...
What happens to old oceanic crust at convergent...
When electrons are shared between two atoms, th...
What happens to the temperature of matter as li...
By shocking ocean water, earthquakes can cause ...
Where are the desmosome found in a cell? epithe...
An action potential that starts at the axon hil...
Fission is a type of radioactivity in which lar...
Bones are the main organs of what system, which...
Most waves strike the shore at an angle. this c...
What is the difference between the daily high a...
Spermatogonia are the stem cells of what male s...
Sensory neurons transmit nerve impulses from se...
Sexually reproducing organisms alternate betwee...
     Acids turn blue litmus paper which color? red
The development of a head region is called what...
Which hormone helps cells absorb sugar from the...
What is the number of electrons equal to in eve...
Does climate change have a positive or negative...
What is the most common form of dwarfism in hum...
What is the term for groups of three successive...
The coccyx, or tailbone, results from the fusio...
What is a pure substance that cannot be separat...
How many different types of stresses are there?...
A molecule has two structures that can be gener...
An antigen is a molecule that reacts with some ...
What bodily system is primarily responsible for...
Displacement, velocity, acceleration, and force...
Gases such as co2 and methane can trap what ene...
What happens when heated water is released into...
What term is used to describe a chemical releas...
Producers at the base of ecological food webs a...
What is the term for the gas in smog that can d...
What must happen for two ions to form an ionic ...
What is the study of the similarities and diffe...
What are the main organs of the respiratory sys...
What do you call the traits that allow a plant,...
The products of photosynthesis are glucose and ...
 In what way do bacteria reproduce? binary fission
What type of fibers are made mostly of protein ...
What force is responsible for erosion by flowin...
Nearly all protists exist in some type of aquat...
What type of rocks form from cooled magma or la...
What kind of cells have positive cell potential...
A fish's stream-lined body that reduces water r...
Emissions of what gas into the atmosphere from ...
Gymnosperms have seeds but do not have what? fl...
Modern members of what broad animal group live ...
The right ventricle pumps what type of blood to...
Some 96% of the dry mass consists of organic co...
What is it called when something is unable to m...
What waves are the broad range of electromagnet...
What are the two main types of sedimentary rock...
Light waves which interfere with themselves aft...
Distance traveled divided by time yields what m...
Beryllium, magnesium, calcium, strontium, and b...
Common among mammals and insects, pheromones ar...
Neutron stars are the corpses of left over what...
In recent years, however, researchers have disc...
The negative logarithm of the hydroxide-ion con...
What is the greatest contribution of arthropods...
What kind of weather change do la nina years us...
In physics, _______ is defined as the average k...
               What are proteins encoded by? genes
In alcoholic fermentation , which acid changes ...
   What is another term for scale worms? halkieria
What type of device do scientist use to determi...
Which constellation looks like a rectangle high...
What mammal is often a pollinator of nocturnal ...
What can reproduce by infecting the cell of a l...
The theory that establishes the concepts of ato...
 How does the heart transport blood? blood vessels
The gender of a baby is determined by what spec...
What does the activity of an organism depend on...
What is solid water that forms when water vapor...
What gets released into the atmosphere when fos...
What is the term for the measure of a fluid's t...
Plant cells have structures that animal cells? ...
What reduces the need for pesticides and other ...
Matter can be described with what two encompass...
When the number of active receptors falls below...
Types of neurons include sensory neurons, motor...
Active and passive forms of what enable the bod...
What is the energy of motion called? kinetic en...
What is the term for an infection caused by a f...
What do you call the ability to sense sound ene...
Some plants can detect increased levels of what...
What are the high points of a transverse wave c...
What is the transfer of heat by a current? conv...
When acellular slime molds swarm, they fuse tog...
Potential energy is not only associated with th...
What is the name of film that polyester fibers ...
  Where do germline mutations occur in? in gametes
What a mixture of nitric acid and hydrochloric ...
Most members of what kingdom of spore-making or...
What results when the water vapor from a hot sh...
What type of vascular plants produce seeds in c...
In fruit flies, all homeotic genes are found on...
Certain medications can suppress the immune sys...
The geometry of the bf 3 molecule is called wha...
In multicellular organisms, mutations can be su...
What is the name for a biologist who studies fu...
How many different kinds of ions are produced w...
What mineral is made of one silicon atom and tw...
               How many cycles do cells have? four
Gas particles can move randomly in what directi...
The total number of protons and neutorns in an ...
All matter is composed of tiny indivisible part...
              Where do lightnings build up? clouds
What do we call zeros that appear after nonzero...
What term is used to describe a bond formed by ...
According to count rumford, which two are equiv...
What type of radio waves exist in the 540 to 16...
What type of cells make up about one quarter of...
The mass of the objects and the distance betwee...
Without the dominant disturbance, the fire-adap...
Constantly going through some form of growth an...
Positive charges move in the direction of the e...
Redox reactions, like other chemical reactions,...
How does alcohol expand over a wide range of te...
How many years ago may the earliest fungi have ...
What are the bones in partly movable joints hel...
Sepals, petals, stamens, and carpels are what k...
How do most growing plant cells expand? through...
What is the common term for the chemical formul...
What kind of reaction is needed to prepare amid...
What is the process by which the egg is fertili...
In moss, what becomes elongated to elevate the ...
What is the base unit that frequency is typical...
Controlling muscles and maintaining balance are...
Displacement divided by time is equal to the av...
The complete hydrolysis of starch yields what? ...
What term describes an imbalance of attractive ...
In mammals, four specialized types of what serv...
Atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease are ...
When cats mark their territory by rubbing their...
Like other bryophytes, moss plants spend most o...
What is a benefit of low sulfur coal over high ...
Wings of bats and birds serve the same function...
The best thermal conductors are also the best c...
What tissue do clubmosses have that mosses do n...
The average human body contains 5,830 g of what...
What type of speciation occurs when groups from...
What can damage the hair cells lining the cochl...
The boiling point of a solution is higher than ...
What is the network of vessels and tissues that...
What is defined as the change of water from its...
Radiation, chemicals, and infectious agents are...
What type of matter transmits light without sca...
Steam actually consists of tiny droplets of liq...
What mammalian class has the greatest ability t...
What is the part of the cardiovascular system t...
What causes polarization in a neutral object? s...
Cells in blood include red blood cells, white b...
What substance is created when a copper turns f...
The egg shell membrane encloses the nucleus con...
According to dalton's law, unless they chemical...
How many mass distinctions have radically alter...
The vector sum of all the torques acting on an ...
What determines how strongly an atom attracts e...
Looking directly at what celestial object can c...
The amount of kinetic energy in a moving object...
What is the movement of fluid out of the capill...
The prevalence of cervical cancer in the united...
There is a predictable amount of solute that ca...
Carrier proteins bind and carry the molecules a...
As per hutton's unconformity, what happened to ...
What kind of summers do humid continental clima...
Compared to others, what type of liquid has a r...
Cilia and flagella are extensions of what? plas...
Mercury and lead, which was once widely used in...
During karyogamy, the haploid nuclei contribute...
      What is polyisoprene better known as? rubber
Every chemical reaction occurs with a concurren...
       What receives blood in the heart? the atria
Fatty acids, triglycerides, phospholipids, and ...
Where in the cell does photosynthesis occur? ch...
Sympathetic stimulation also triggers the relea...
Not surprisingly, centipedes, millipedes and ot...
What are found in moist forests that break down...
By breaking down wastes and remains of dead org...
What are sugars broken down into in your digest...
Approximately how many weeks does the fetal per...
Because dizygotic twins develop from two eggs f...
What is the plasma membrane mainly composed of?...
Astronomers have wondered if the universe is ex...
When someone falls, the kinetic energy the pers...
What are protons and neutrons that make up the ...
The sun, stars, moon, planets and comets are al...
            What is the total number of codons? 64
Solution nodes and antinodes are both areas of ...
While similar to insects, what eight-legged inv...
How many chromosomes do mature gametes contain? 23
What is the term for land that has permanently ...
When sparks from a steel grinder react with oxy...
What should you learn that allows you to recogn...
Motor vehicles account for almost half of the c...
Bacterial stis can be cured with what? antibiotics
Fats are also called triacylglycerols or trigly...
What mammalian structure allows the exchange of...
Fossil fuel consumption is a major contributor ...
  What is the main function of blood? to transport
Biotechnology is the use of biological agents f...
Unlike free-living species of flatworms that ar...
When heat flows into an object, its thermal ene...
What are telescopes that use lenses to bend lig...
The science of analyzing tree rings is called w...
Which type of arthritis causes the immune syste...
A species is a subdivision of a genus in what c...
What is the force that pulls particles at the e...
What state is achieved when the body's internal...
Kinetic and potential are two forms of what? en...
Humans are unique in their ability to alter the...
A desmosome is a cell structure that anchors th...
How much space a surface covers is known as wha...
What do aquatic arthropods use to exchange gase...
What kind of rays can travel thousands of meter...
Of the three types of skeleton designs - hydros...
What regulates homeostasis and basic survival b...
What device changes kinetic energy to electrica...
What are two nonliving things that all living t...
The fight or flight response involves what syst...
       How many types of galaxies are there? three
Skin color is controlled by genes but also infl...
Higher temperatures increase the rate of reacti...
Knees and elbows are examples of what part of t...
Einstein’s equation helps scientists understand...
Ovulation is the release of an egg from the wha...
The process in which the nucleus divides is cal...
What is used to recrystallize excess dissolved ...
Our bodies use what, primarily in the form of g...
What part of the body do ants use to detect che...
Water has the properties of cohesion and what e...
Fitness and natural selection are parts of what...
What three forces are involved in erosion? wate...
Thermodynamics do not give us any insight into ...
What is the main source of hydrocarbons? fossil...
What is the process of the blastula forming 3 l...
How does air pressure change as altitude increa...
In harmonic motion there is always what force, ...
Many of the protist species classified into the...
What is the thick fluid in the space between bo...
What is the name of the portion of a nucleotide...
The band disappears before metaphase but predic...
What is a common age-related bone disease in wh...
Bacteria reproduce through what process? binary...
What is the branch of science that studies the ...
Osteoclasts break down bone to maintain mineral...
Which carbohydrates can be classified in terms ...
What is altered by changes in cardiac output by...
Eukaryotic cells are cells that contain what? a...
What distinctive dna shape forms when the two n...
The oxygen regions of the water molecules have ...
Humans use many compounds that were first disco...
Millipedes and centipedes are the most commonly...
Glass breaking is an example of what type of ch...
Aldehydes, ketones, carboxylic acids, esters, a...
   What forms when an atom gains electrons? anions
There are several types of wetlands including m...
What element is typically used to shield things...
What is the combination of tissues that provide...
Because microorganisms can go through several g...
Examples of acute forms of what type of disease...
             What do red blood cells carry? oxygen
The sympathetic division of the vertebrate auto...
What light-producing process occurs when a subs...
What lies between the continental shelf and the...
In the first beaker, distilled water does not c...
What is another term for hydraulic fracturing? ...
In what unit is speed usually measured? miles p...
Unlike liver bile, 'juice' produced by what org...
What term means opposition to the flow of elect...
According to law, what must packaged foods carr...
What type of terminal releases neurotransmitter...
What chemical affects the onset of puberty and ...
What are the only plants with a life cycle in w...
    What do angiosperms produce? flowers and fruit
What should you let liquid waste do before plac...
Mammoths, close genetic relatives of modern ele...
What is the ph level of neutral, pure water? seven
Which organ system defends the body from pathog...
What is the process where scientific articles a...
A mutation is a random change in an organism's ...
Synovial and ball-and-socket are both types of ...
       Who invented dynamite in 1866? alfred nobel
Most liquid freshwater is under the ground in l...
What phenotype do gain-of-function mutations us...
What occurs if oxygen cannot be obtained at a s...
   What are the key to species evolving? mutations
Cancer develops when what process is unregulate...
What are needed to oxidize the noble gases to f...
Which muscles raise the hyoid bone, the floor o...
What type of energy is stored in an object beca...
Like plants, animals are multicellular what? eu...
A doorknob and a ferris wheel are examples of w...
What do ocean mollusks use to absorb oxygen fro...
      What is paleobotany? study of extinct plants
What happens to the level of relative humidity ...
What term is used to describe a compound that d...
Peregrine falcons made an incredible recovery a...
What pathway in a plant do water and nutrients ...
In the tropics what are the prevailing winds ca...
How many chromosomes are in a diploid human cel...
Motion of water molecules helps break up intera...
Which cycle is named after the scientist melvin...
What is formed when a subducting plate flows un...
What force increases a slide downhill and decre...
Lymphoma is a cancer of a type of what type of ...
What type of eggs do fully terrestrial vertebra...
What is the time since the beginning of the ice...
What will the contraction of smooth muscles hel...
What is an acid that can be produced from the a...
Weathering is fundamental to the creation of wh...
What type of weathering causes the minerals in ...
What is the process in which a liquid changes t...
By pulling out grass by its roots and over-graz...
What are the three types of isomers? structural...
The chloroplasts contain a green pigment called...
What state occurs when the amount of solute dis...
What occurs when spores from two parents fuse a...
Macrophages and dendritic cells are types of wh...
What side of a mountain does the rainshadow eff...
Centrioles are a very important part of what? c...
What is the volume of the molecules of an ideal...
 What part of the body are eggs formed in? ovaries
What is the first digestive organ that food ent...
Soda fizzes when what common gas comes out of s...
The voltage and current are exactly in phase in...
Combining the voltages of the oxidation and red...
What occurs when an unstable nucleus emits a be...
A chemical property describes the ability of a ...
When energy is captured or transformed, it inev...
The periodic table is one of the cornerstones o...
What organs filter wastes from blood so they ca...
The tidal forces near what celestial phenomena ...
   What are female gonads normally called? ovaries
Starch and glycogen, as well as simple sugars l...
Lipids are biochemical compounds such as fats a...
What is the process of small molecules passing ...
What change the physical properties of solvents...
Which human body system is a complex network of...
What is a sheet of muscle that spreads across t...
What creates charged regions in a water molecul...
Phosphorus exists as several allotropes, the mo...
What is the term for environmental causes of mu...
How are classic sedimentary rocks group? size o...
    How many eyelid membranes do frogs have? three
What is another word for saturated hydrocarbons...
Where is the pressure of gases in the atmospher...
What strong and lightweight manmade material is...
What is the third male reprodutive structure af...
What are considered solid lipids that animals u...
The small, egg-shaped organs that lie on either...
Which competition leads to one species going ex...
Who discovered that the andromeda nebula is ove...
What does every star emit that humans cannot se...
What type pf mining is used to obtain mineral o...
The external female reproductive structures are...
    Acid rain may be caused by what? air pollution
What process is used to chemically and mechanic...
What is the study of matter and the changes tha...
What occurs when the presence or absence of a s...
Why have rivers in arid regions been reduced to...
Having extra chromosomes or damaged chromosomes...
What do farmers use greenhouses for? to extend ...
What is it called when two waves in the same me...
Which forests are found throughout the ocean in...
What is the type of cancer in which bone marrow...
Mechanical energy can also usually be expressed...
What kind of bonds are forces of attraction bet...
Aldehydes and ketones can work weak hydrogen bo...
Asexual reproduction in plants is typically an ...
A type of what in a cow's gut enables the anima...
What basic structures are called the building b...
What kind of behavior occurs only after experie...
What is the study of the interaction between ma...
Prescribed to treat allergies, antihistamines a...
The main advantage of urea is its very low what...
What type of blood cells transport oxygen to th...
What title is used to describe health professio...
Flowers pollinated by what means generally lack...
Fog disappears when the water droplets change b...
What is the name of the type of combustion engi...
What must molecules have to be cis-trans isomer...
In physics, work means the use of what to move ...
Types of radiation that cause cancer include ul...
How many calories of energy does one gram of su...
Defecating, urination, and even childbirth invo...
When we move down a group of elements on the pe...
What two elements do chloroplasts split water i...
Continuous-flow reactors are chemical reaction ...
What is it called when one or more ending digit...
Hair sticks out from the epidermis, but it grow...
The milky way galaxy is which shape type of gal...
Atmospheric pressure is low in what anatomicall...
What occurs when a substance diffuses through a...
Sodium and chloride ions have equal but what ch...
What is making measurements that are close to t...
What are muscle cells in the muscles called? mu...
What term means the minimum energy required in ...
What term is used to describe the change in siz...
What are created based upon the loss or gain of...
All atoms of the same element have the same num...
What kind of chain is formed by subduction of o...
Which kinds of cells have nuclei and other memb...
What regulates the thyroid gland in a body? neg...
Females of what mammalian group have mammary gl...
What helps fungus digest cellulose and other ma...
In what form of lipids cells store energy for l...
What is used to fluoridate drinking water to pr...
Light reactions also release oxygen gas as a wh...
What is the term for rain that has a ph less th...
What gas is released into the atmosphere when f...
What are the most energetic of all electromagne...
When does a baby double in length and triple in...
Where do the cells in your body get oxygen from...
What type of generations do plants alternate be...
Genetic diversity in a population comes from tw...
What state of matter completes the list: solid,...
The heart, blood vessels, and blood make up whi...
What unit of measurement is typically used for ...
Which elements fall between metals and nonmetal...
What is it called when bones get longer and big...
What kind of reactions are involved in processe...
Mycorrhizae functions as a physical barrier to ...
What do skeletal muscles enable the body to do?...
What is the sum total of all body reactions? me...
What type of reproduction involves combining ge...
What kind of molecule is made from one or more ...
What part of the heart receives the blood is pu...
What type of properties are characteristics tha...
What is the leading cause of death in the unite...
What results when gas particles rebound off the...
How do most fish reproduce with one another? se...
What is the ability to cause changes in matter?...
The group 18 gases that have 8 valence electron...
Competition is a relationship between organisms...
What does phagocytosis defend the body from? pa...
What measures the force of gravity pulling on a...
 Are coral reefs found in warm or cold water? warm
In humans, there are five primary tastes, and e...
The large positive free energy change leads to ...
Slime molds are fungus-like protists that grow ...
What is the body cavity that reptiles have that...
What is the germ for a group of atoms within a ...
During asexual reproduction, fungi produce hapl...
In eukaryotes, oxidative phosphorylation takes ...
Short chains of two amino acids (dipeptides) or...
What do fungi use to penetrate deep into decayi...
All living cells in multicellular organisms con...
Under appropriate conditions, the attractions b...
What else besides temperature has an effect on ...
What type of charge does a neutron have? neutra...
Animals that molt their exoskeletons belong to ...
Alkaline earth metals are what color? silvery grey
What type of movement is caused by erosion from...
What term is used describe energy released duri...
What are the rolling motions during an earthqua...
What is the process that breaks down rocks into...
What is the measurement for the amount of water...
Major exchange pools of carbon include organism...
When light is absorbed by a material, what may ...
What branch of physical science looks at how he...
Connective tissues typically have three charact...
After what stage do the last 2 stages of food p...
What part of the plant holds the plant upright?...
What is a circuit that consists of one loop cal...
Leaves respond to these environmental stimuli b...
 Mammals that lay eggs are called what? monotremes
In what ocean is the mid-atlantic ridge located...
Models may be physical, conceptual, or what els...
What is an organism that spreads bacteria or ot...
What influences the types of plants and animals...
In the vast majority of ectopic pregnancies, th...
In a single-celled organism such as chlamydomon...
Timber, medicines, dyes, oils, and rubber are j...
Differences between organisms reflect differenc...
Lying with their mouths open, a behavior called...
What type of living things break down dead orga...
When food enters the stomach after a period of ...
Mutations that lead to cancer usually occur in ...
What type of environment is maintained in homeo...
When calculating impulse, consider the change i...
What word describes any chemical that affects t...
The entry of acidic chyme into the duodenum sti...
  Adulthood is divided into how many stages? three
What is the single bone that forms the posterio...
Is the progeny produced by asexual reproduction...
Supersaturated solutions of most solids in wate...
Bacterial stis usually can be cured with what? ...
Intensity is defined to be the power per unit a...
Trophic level 4 = tertiary consumers that eat w...
What takes the shape of the container they are ...
What is produced when a colorless solution of l...
Due to the difference in the distribution of ch...
What do we call the major artery carrying recen...
In a model of a hemoglobin molecule, the purple...
What kind of gland produces an oily substance t...
Which type of substance is considered a proton ...
What are materials that are good conductors of ...
Why do players with more mass often have a larg...
Corals build hard exoskeletons that grow to bec...
What property is the result of force acting on ...
Nervous tissue consists of just two basic types...
The plasma membrane of a skeletal muscle fiber ...
What is the force pulling an object downward ca...
Which part of all mammals have the same basic b...
The symbol for each what is usually the first l...
The only things that affect the period of a sim...
What is the amide bond that occurs between the ...
What encloses the border of animal cells? plasm...
Heterotrophic organisms use organic compounds, ...
Electrons always result in what? an anion that ...
The diffusion of water across a membrane becaus...
Bioluminescence is an example of what type of a...
What reflex is commonly tested in newborn infan...
All of the monatomic ions have oxidation number...
Unlike plants, animal species rely almost exclu...
Give an example of benthos that live near vents...
What is the distinctive shape of the molecule t...
What is a bread mold and research organism that...
       How do most echinoderms reproduce? sexually
      What do all cells have in common? small size
What do electric motors use to change electrica...
 What are prokaryotic cells filled with? cytoplasm
    What is the name of plant-like protists? algae
A sticky, moist secretion that covers mucous me...
What system lets flatworms maintain a proper ba...
What gas associated with global warming is rele...
Because their embryos are surrounded by a thin ...
What type of energy is clean and does not relea...
Physical and chemical properties of geometric i...
What type of cell has a singular chromosome, no...
Protists, fungi, animals, and plants all consis...
What does magma that cools underground form? in...
What is used to report the results of scientifi...
What is the first digestive organ that food ent...
Insulin is made up of how many polypeptide chai...
What is the term for the energy of movement? me...
What type of organisms are helpless at birth an...
Metallic bonds allow metals to do what, in the ...
What is a substance that can not be broken down...
What three characteristics do waves have? refle...
                    What organ creates bile? liver
What is the smallest and most fundamental unit ...
Mutation of beneficial proto-oncogenes is a pri...
What happens to charges whenever they are accel...
What is it in bone marrow transplants that may ...
The vagina starts at the vulva and ends where? ...
Regulatory proteins bind to regulatory elements...
Microfilaments are mostly concentrated just ben...
What term is used for any combination of two or...
   What is biomass made into fuel called? bio fuel
What type of thin lava forms shapes and tubes a...
The nucleolus, which makes ribosomes, is locate...
Electrons flow through the electrolyte from the...
What is the name of the part that connects the ...
No-till farming is one effort to combat what, c...
Geysers are created when what is heated beneath...
Increasing voltage with a higher-volt battery d...
Hydrogen peroxide will decompose over time to p...
What kind of pipettes are suitable for measurin...
What is the measure of the force of gravity pul...
Boiling points increase with which kind of mass...
The largest absorption of heat comes during the...
What do fungi absorb to get their nutrition? or...
The variable is the speed of light. for the rel...
A yolk sac replaces what structure for nourishi...
What is the pressure of gas in a gas mixture te...
Making ups about 50 percent of the modern ameri...
What is the process of the fusion of a sperm an...
What is the motion that moves the forearm from ...
What organ system consists of the skin, nails a...
What does it mean to be a diploid organism? org...
What do you call the carbohydrate formed when t...
What is the term for a resource that is used in...
The genes that code for the positive cell cycle...
What are essential for pollination, but can spr...
Branching food chains and complex trophic inter...
The chemical behavior of elements can largely b...
Metalloids, metals, and nonmetals are all class...
             How does air always flow? high to low
What type of invisible waves are used in microw...
Which muscular organ pumps blood all around you...
      What causes the changes of puberty? estrogen
If a sedimentary rock layer is not horizontal, ...
What system, which includes the skin, plays imp...
What type of plant tissue transports water and ...
What can lenses be used to make? visual represe...
Surface tension is a property of matter that is...
Amphibians have permeable skin which allows for...
What is the main component of paper, cardboard,...
What theory explains the physical behavior of g...
Only finished mrnas are exported from the nucle...
What is the largest artery in the body called? ...
What type of change has occurred when a copper ...
A switch in a circuit controls the flow of what...
What causes fertilization to occur? sperm and a...
Because they spread seeds, fruits are an agent ...
Proto-oncogenes normally help regulate what? ce...
The "double helix" shape is associated with wha...
What do you call the physical environment in wh...
      What is the outer core made of? liquid metal
What type of eukaryotes are protists normally? ...
An inclined plane is a good example of what kin...
The pressure of a sample of gas is measured wit...
Bog destruction in scotland is an example of th...
What part of the plant has a root end and a sho...
Hardness, density, color, and melting and boili...
Low levels of thyroid hormones in the blood cau...
The energy changes in what reactions are enormo...
What type of chemistry is the study of the comp...
Scientists did not actually see viruses until w...
Regularly done aerobic activities can help buil...
What do all chemical sections need to get start...
What do people apply to their lawns that causes...
What do vertebrates possess that is made up of ...
How long does it take for earth to rotate on it...
In what system can energy change forms but the ...
What characteristics of an organism help it sur...
The major component of a solution is called wha...
What type of pollution is generated by power pl...
Nearly all of what are constructed from a set o...
What takes place when water on earth’s surface ...
The muscles of the anterior neck assist in degl...
Cells infected with viruses secrete what exampl...
What term is used to describe changes to an org...
Molecules with a carboxyl group are called what...
What type of galaxies have a rotating disk of s...
How is carbon dioxide and water vapor that is p...
What occurs when there are differences in fitne...
A group of living things and their environment ...
Iridescent green beetles, known as jewel beetle...
The effects of which kind of selection are larg...
Superconductors are materials with a resistivit...
What affects how high a cake rises when it bake...
Binary fission is an example of which type of p...
      What type of field does earth have? magnetic
Single bonds allow the atoms they join to rotat...
Preserved remains or traces of organisms that l...
Co 2 , h 2 o, methane, o 3 , nitrous oxides (no...
A black solid by itself, this element is incred...
Radar maps of venus show that it has mountains,...
Bones are part of which body system? skeletal s...
Name the 2 types of carbohydrates? simple and c...
The lungs are a series of ever-narrowing tubes ...
Fish and other aquatic organisms use gills to c...
What phase of a human life does not have a defi...
Where do all plants come from? terrestrial ance...
The esophagus runs a mainly straight route thro...
What chambers are responsible for pumping blood...
What's the term for the period during which wom...
What is the set of steps that scientists use to...
Which are the closest living relations to land ...
In vertebrates, what structure runs from the br...
What is it called when the chance that a certai...
     What is the hardest of all minerals? diamonds
When bread bakes, yeast releases which gas? car...
What nervous tissue cells play a supporting rol...
Use of oil-consuming bacteria to clean up an oi...
What is the process called in which living thin...
What are the building blocks of peptides? amino...
The pull of the moon’s gravity on earth is the ...
What happens to evolution when equilibrium is r...
Prostaglandins worsen what by increasing nocice...
The outer surface of the heart changes from pos...
What are the closest relatives to modern angios...
Heating a gas gives its particles more of what ...
What is the term for long carbohydrate molecule...
What is the only known planet with large amount...
What is the disease in which bones lose mass an...
What speeds up the reactions of chemical digest...
In how many states does water exist on earth? t...
Find the overall magnification of what instrume...
Insects have a highly specialized type of respi...
What are the two main minerals found in ocean w...
Which form of digestion is a purely physical pr...
What was the early study of chemistry called? a...
What are used to balance chemical equations? co...
 What kind of core does mercury have? liquid metal
Physical features on the earth's surface are kn...
"direct" and "alternating" are two kinds of wha...
What is a strombolian eruption named for? mt. s...
Which part of the plant conduct water and miner...
Ice caps are found only in greenland and which ...
During a what type of reaction do chemical chan...
In mammals, the cells on the exterior form the ...
In sexual reproduction, what is the name of the...
The term "environment of deposition" is useful ...
Apical dominance, seed germination, gravitropis...
In the nasal cavity, what 2 things trap particl...
Elemental carbon is a black, dull-looking solid...
  Who created the periodic table? dmitri mendeleev
What are unique in having adaptive immunity in ...
All three axes are established before the zygot...
Because they are charged (polar), these ions do...
What are complex organic molecules that make up...
A light bulb converts electrical energy to ligh...
What are chemical bonds between atoms of nonmet...
What piece of technology can you use to see inf...
Lenses make use of what to create images? refra...
What do animals observe in others to help solve...
Reef sponges typically have what type of benefi...
Where is the only place an electric charge can ...
What part of a cell do proteins travel to to be...
When current flows in just one direction, what ...
An ammeter must be connected in series with wha...
What combines with rain to form acid rain? nitr...
Bacterial stis include chlamydia, gonorrhea, an...
Rubbing your hands together warms them by conve...
What is the opposite of nuclear fusion? nuclear...
What are the three classifications of elements?...
Worms use a hydrostatic type of what anatomical...
What flexible organ enables swallowing and spee...
 What is a wall of rocks or concrete called? groin
What are the special mating behaviors in birds ...
What kind of charges do protons give the nucleu...
What happens when a cell takes in substances th...
What are compounds formed by ionic bonds called...
What kind of diagrams can be used to illustrate...
 What always continues in a red supergiant? fusion
Glycolysis, the krebs cycle, and the electron t...
Sex-linked traits are located on genes on what ...
What nerves attached to the brain are mainly re...
 What would you need to see most cells? microscope
The intermolecular structure of what has spaces...
Some compounds form rigid frameworks called wha...
What type of relationship is it when one variab...
What is the term for polyatomic ligands with tw...
A single, often oversimplified, path through wh...
Oncogenes are involved in the formation of what...
The lack of annihilation radiation coming to us...
Dinitrophenol (dnp) is an uncoupler that makes ...
Melanocytes are located in which layer of the e...
Soils with higher capacities generally have a l...
Materials that are good conductors of thermal e...
Composite cones are steep-sided, cone-shaped ty...
Deficiency of what is symptomized by nausea, fa...
Most thoracic vertebrae have two facets that ar...
Thrombocytes are more commonly known by what na...
What is the term for the remains or traces of l...
What type of disease is caused by pathogens? in...
Worms grow to adult size without going through ...
What serves as a first responder to pathogenic ...
Of the three basic types of emissions, which ha...
True animals are divided into those with radial...
While still an early fetus, what is the skeleto...
What forms the pathway of water and nutrients f...
What proteins span the entire plasma membrane? ...
                   Why is blue cheese blue? fungus
What type of joint are ball-and-socket, hinge, ...
Are valence electrons attracted more or less st...
What do we call the predictable distribution of...
Name the simple sugar that is a component of st...
What do vertebrates have which invertebrates do...
Occuring throughout the lifespan of the organis...
The fetus is connected to what by a tube called...
What are most fresh fruits, vegetables, whole g...
What term tells you how quickly the angle chang...
What term is used to describe how fast a chemic...
What is the term for protists that produce spor...
Why does neptune's appearance change? turbulent...
Changing levels of what substances partly expla...
What term refers to larger evolutionary changes...
What do you call a lens that causes the light r...
Diffusion can occur across a semipermeable memb...
Scientists use what scale to illustrate the ord...
What will happen if the gas particles inside an...
What are the major sites of gibberellin product...
What is required for interconversion between th...
Bacteria reproduce through what process, where ...
Water molecules are polar, so they form what ty...
The cecum is the first part of what structure, ...
What are the "levels" in a food chain or web ca...
Are bones considered living or dead tissues? li...
What forms when water in the atmosphere condens...
What are the two types of fermentation? lactic ...
Aging occurs as cells lose their ability to do ...
What is it called when liquid water falls from ...
Applying a pressure greater than the osmotic pr...
The molecule pictured above is thyroxine, a com...
Birds generally practice what kind of relations...
Gravitropism ensures that roots grow into the s...
What is the mass of one mole of any given subst...
The corona surrounds which major object in our ...
Respiration that occurs in the cells is called?...
Metabolism is an emergent property of life that...
During cellular respiration, carbons from the g...
How does the distance between galaxies change a...
Rainwater absorbs carbon dioxide (co 2 ) as it ...
Most molecular compounds that have a mass simil...
What do you call the movement of molecules acro...
Opposite charges attract and like charges do wh...
What molecules are usually insoluble in water? ...
What occurs when there is a sudden discharge of...
If citrate accumulates in mitochondria, some of...
For most of a star’s life, hydrogen atoms fuse ...
What two ways do channels respond during membra...
What kind of compound, contained in coffee and ...
In mammals what does the zona pellucida protect...
What type of vertebrates control body temperatu...
Worldwide, viruses seem to play a role in what ...
Elements are pure substances that make up what?...
What reproductive part is stored in a plant's p...
Atoms of what element ultimately form in a red ...
What are the two types of fats? saturated and u...
What structure consists of an outer layer of ce...
Metabolic pathways are a series of reactions ca...
What causes eutrophication to occur? excess of ...
What do you call the separation of ions that oc...
What is light with wavelengths shorter than vis...
How much distance can beta particles travel thr...
What is created when the warm air at the cold f...
People with osteoporosis have an increase risk ...
What is the main artery of the systematic circu...
The length that an object has travelled in one ...
In animals, what process occurs only in germ ce...
Which theory describes the benzene molecule and...
What type of carbon dioxide levels have been ri...
Freezing rain that falls from the sky is also c...
Do waves move faster when particles are close t...
Adult bees include workers, a queen and what ot...
Name the law that determines as to which rock l...
Since the electric field lines point radially a...
What are in leaves that function as solar colle...
What is the process of producing eggs in the ov...
What term refers to the deliberate prevention o...
Homologous chromosomes move toward what poles? ...
Why are the stems of many xerophytes fleshy? st...
Most body fluids that you release from your bod...
   What is at the top of the mesosphere? mesopause
Yogurt is made from milk fermented with what ty...
What happens to an animal's telomeres as it age...
Characterized by uncontrolled growth, cancerous...
Historically, malaria has rivaled what as the l...
When the number of electrons and the number of ...
The angle of refraction depends on the index of...
Systems are in thermal equilibrium when they ha...
What needs to be increased to change a solid in...
Minerals that are not compounds consist of a si...
What globular protein is used in the constructi...
Two important types of energy that can be conve...
What is the diffusion of water through a semipe...
What are the key cells of an immune response? l...
Darwin found that, since all species are relate...
Newly formed what aggregates into threads that ...
The general term peptide refers to an amino aci...
Average global temperature has been doing what ...
What disease is caused when the oomycete plasmo...
     What is the diploid number for fruit flies? 8
An example of irreversible denaturation of what...
In an environment, symbiosis, competition, and ...
   What is another term for ghost sharks? chimaera
What makes the realized niche of chthamalus muc...
Red stars are the coolest; which are the hottes...
Which type of muscle is most common in the huma...
What is the name for a combination of elements ...
Volcanoes can be active, dormant, or what else?...
Vesicular transport includes exocytosis and wha...
What supports the scapula, transmits the weight...
What are the three fundamental phases of matter...
What system in the human body makes white blood...
Which process or force pulls rocks apart? tensi...
What rigid layer surrounds the cell membrane of...
When does internal reflection occur? when light...
      What is the fourth planet from the sun? mars
Which region of dna consists of one or more gen...
Members of the genus trypanosoma are flagellate...
      The major salivary enzyme is called? amylase
Who first discovered the moons of jupiter in 16...
Fossil records show that what process may occur...
What part of the ear is often described as a bo...
Enzymes speed up the rate of a specific chemica...
What is required to break bonds in reactants? e...
Organs are made up of two or more types of what...
During what type of reproduction do two haploid...
What does the ground tissue consist mostly of i...
What type of wave is visible light? electromagn...
What catalyzes the hydrolysis of amino acids fr...
Which group of species is defined as having moi...
Where are integral proteins embedded? libid bil...
Skeletal muscles are attached to bones by what?...
The duodenum, the jejunum, and the ileum are th...
Temperature and pressure affect changes in phas...
The water in some springs are hot because they'...
What consists of all the living things and nonl...
How much can the bacteria in your gut weigh? 2 ...
As a myotube is formed from many different myob...
When thinking of the rate at which two gases mi...
What serious sti can damage the heart, brain an...
When a seed is produced by apomixis, the embryo...
When an oxidation number of an atom is decrease...
A venule is an extremely small vein, generally ...
The active site can only bind certain what? sub...
In a food chain, what group of organisms breaks...
What is the term for organisms that have adapta...
What organism is the most disruptive towards th...
Migration and hibernation are examples of behav...
What are all of the living or once-living aspec...
Temporal and spatial summation at the axon hill...
What two systems are the lungs part of? respira...
What occurs in a formerly inhabited area that w...
What can demonstrate the decrease in energy, bi...
What evolutionary concept characterizes a speci...
What determines the unique sequence for every p...
By breaking down organic matter, roundworms pla...
In the lungs, oxygen diffuses out of the alveol...
What term is used to describe animals that excr...
The numbers and types of species in most ecosys...
The enormous number of species is due to the tr...
What is the energy needed to start a reaction b...
Which proteins bind to the surfaces of microorg...
What type of competition occurs between members...
Alternation of generations is characteristic of...
What carries the instructions from the nucleus ...
What is measured using units pascal, bar, atmos...
What is a disease that can be spread from anima...
Where does most of the mass for an atom reside?...
When electric current flows through a wire, it ...
What is the outermost layer of the skin? epidermis
What is it called when waves spread out as they...
What is the process of oxidized iron that has b...
What consists of one or two closed loops throug...
What muscle is imperative to breathing in helpi...
What third property is different if two boxes h...
What occurs when two opposite charges are separ...
What is the term for the span in the life of an...
Deposition also occurs when a stream or river e...
What is the process called in which nutrients p...
The colloquial term "ribbon worm" refers to the...
The number, size, shape, and banding pattern of...
The logistics of carrying out cellular metaboli...
What large dwarf planet in our solar system was...
Covalent bond energies can be used to estimate ...
What type of waste is eliminated from the body ...
Fungi cause three different types of human illn...
If you find dna floating in a cell's cytoplasm,...
Graded potentials are temporary changes in what...
How many different types of taste neurons does ...
Deer ticks are vectors for the bacteria that ca...
What is established by the ph differences betwe...
During metamorphosis, most salamander species g...
What is a purification process where the compon...
What gas comprises about three-fourths of earth...
The lymphatic system helps return fluid that le...
Light is energy that travels in the form of wha...
Naphthalens is a chemical which is commonly use...
What substances are secreted by specialized cel...
Chlorine and bromine gases released into the at...
Which kind of vertebrates are amphibians? ectot...
What type of forces are involved when deposited...
Vertebrates differ from invertebrates because t...
The fluid surrounding cells is hemolymph in ins...
Whan an alkene is aquired by an alkyl halide in...
What is the process by which undigested food le...
Because of its composition, oil does not do wha...
Linked genes are located on the same what? chro...
What move the body by contracting against the s...
In what energy industry process are fluids pump...
What counter provides a sensitive means of dete...
What do stored fats provide our body with for l...
What long molecules are composed of chains of u...
Where does an object gain or lose it's energy t...
Where do biochemical reactions take place? insi...
When fuel is burned, most of the energy is rele...
How are voltmeters placed in the circuit? in pa...
What is an attitude of doubt about the truthful...
Cardiovascular disease, some types of cancer, t...
What process is the primary function of the bra...
Which law means that the simplest of competing ...
Iron will do what when it is exposed to oxygen ...
About how many days does it take the moon to ma...
The most common two-lens telescope, like the si...
Glucose, galactose, and fructose are all what? ...
Which property can you study by comparing the m...
What term means the percent by mass of each ele...
The combined gas law involves three properties ...
What is the force of attraction that holds toge...
In the lungs, bicarbonate is transported back i...
What is defined as an organism in the earliest ...
Microevolution occuring and taking place over m...
What do craters and rifts become when they fill...
What system carries messages from sense organs ...
What disease is described as a respiratory diso...
What is used to darken images of the sky? polar...
A tumor of what gland can cause hypersecretion ...
After the blood in the pulmonary capillaries be...
Depending on the surrounding conditions, normal...
What celestial bodies are classified by color a...
What carries small pollen grains farther than t...
What do rocket-based systems use to propel itse...
What term simply means sensitive beyond normal ...
The hypothalamic releasing and inhibiting hormo...
A microscope can be made from two of what kind ...
What produces almost one-half of the earth's ox...
What is said to occur when both traits appear i...
What type of response do signal transductions w...
What happens to meteors as they fall through th...
What are the three main types of rocks? sedimen...
What is the only continent without amphibians? ...
A hair grows out of a follicle and passes throu...
What are the long, thin structures that protrud...
     What is the unit of evolution? the population
What occurs where the water motion slows? depos...
The force on a charged particle in a magnetic f...
What is the process of removing wastes and exce...
    What is the skeleton of the cell? cytoskeleton
A salt concentration of 32 percent is nearly te...
Atoms of one element can be transformed into an...
Blood from the body enters what chamber of the ...
Dna replication, chromosome segregation, and th...
In science, what is defined as the transfer of ...
Where in the cell does transcription occur? nuc...
Hydrogen peroxide is commonly sold as a 3% by v...
In plants, pigment molecules absorb only visibl...
When an acid and base solutions react, they pro...
In the body, oxygen is used by cells of the bod...
Chemical digestion in the small intestine canno...
What property are alkali metals at room tempera...
What is the name of the smallest planet in our ...
All gymnosperm species and many eudicot species...
Slow-twitch or fast-twitch and oxidative or gly...
Plants have a touch response known as what? thi...
What is at the center of our solar system? the sun
The different types of what systems work togeth...
                  Why is uranus so faint? far away
Which systems work together to provide cells wi...
What organs have tiny tubes leading to and from...
What is produced when sulfur and oxygen combine...
A skeleton that consists of hard, mineralized s...
What evolutionary process does not favor altrui...
In seed plants, after fertilization, what will ...
What is the message sent from the nucleus to th...
The phagocytes that are part of the body’s seco...
Fungi are no longer classified as what, possess...
What kind of compounds are named for their posi...
Endoscopes are used to explore the body through...
Bread has little holes in it from carbon dioxid...
What unit are atomic radii typically measured i...
What are fungus like protists? slime molds and ...
Alpha, beta, and gamma emissions are associated...
Transport of nutrients and regulation of body t...
What are the two components of a mixture called...
Insulin is produced by what cells of the pancre...
What is the arch called that forms when plasma ...
What does some amphibians have as juveniles but...
Ejaculation occurs when muscle contractions pro...
Adult sea stars have what kind of symmetry? rad...
The four types of light receptors include diffe...
In what do substances combine chemically to for...
What is the colorless gas with a sharp, pungent...
Groupings of related organs in the human body a...
The enzymes that participate in fatty acid cata...
Which organ of the body do large tapeworms atta...
The sternum and 12 pairs of ribs with their cos...
Which lipid is mainly responsible for narrowing...
Physical or chemical changes are generally acco...
What is the term for a dynamic equilibrium that...
What has a pseudocoelom and hydrostatic skeleto...
In what two ways are volcanic eruptions charact...
Each enhancer is made up of short dna sequences...
For a star to form, what force pulls gas and du...
What do you call elements that contain only ato...
The organ systems of the body work together to ...
This process of combining the wave functions fo...
Carbon is a nonmetal with a significantly highe...
What is denoted by the number above the chemica...
What does the tires meeting the road cause when...
What gas is contributing to the greenhouse effe...
A complex interactions of hormones result in an...
What are the cells caused that parasites spread...
When can mutations occur in genes? during dna r...
The sites of protein synthesis are tiny structu...
Mollusks, annelids, and arthropods are consider...
One of the simplest machines is the lever, whic...
In essence, a virus is simply a nucleic acid su...
How does the number of protons compare to the n...
The scientific method is a method of research w...
The protist life cycle benefits by including wh...
With what does cytokinins act in concert to sti...
Puberty and other physical changes occurs durin...
What makes organic compounds ubiquitous is the ...
What type of drugs can increase water loss by i...
This type of tissue consists of bundles of xyle...
What is the scientific name of the thighbone, t...
What determines which type of precipitation fal...
Algae is a promising alternative to traditional...
Cancers derived from epithelial cells are refer...
Vibrating objects such as drumheads produce wha...
What two element makes up a hyrdocarbon? carbon...
What are monosaccharides and disaccharides also...
Terrestrial biomes are associated with land, wh...
Different shapes often correlate with different...
What structure is found at the top of the head ...
   What makes up most of biological tissues? water
What occurs when some substances change chemica...
What type of butterfly do birds avoid eating si...
Birds possess a cloaca, a structure that allows...
What contain organelles common to other cells, ...
Hurricanes and winter storms both develop from ...
Which body system controls all the others by se...
What occurs when water on the surface changes t...
What is the position of rock layers and the rel...
What is the field of biology that focuses on th...
The acidity of a solution is typically assessed...
       Where is chemical energy stored? atom bonds
What kind of fuels include coal, oil, and natur...
What do you call the slope that forms the edge ...
What do contour lines that are close together i...
What is the most common type of cancer develope...
          How many chambers are in the heart? four
The central vacuole maintains turgor pressure a...
In the small intestine, chyme mixes with bile, ...
Which electromagnetic waves are the most energe...
Glycolysis harvests chemical energy by oxidizin...
What is the term for the most abundant species ...
Salt-water biomes in the ocean are called what?...
What occurs before the endometrium thickens in ...
Structures like the human tail bone and whale p...
Hazardous waste is material that is toxic, chem...
Which component of the electron transport chain...
Diseases of this system include epilepsy, strok...
About how full is the outer energy level in met...
Which chemical element is the basis of all life...
What structures of the cardiovascular system he...
What is the term for the class of ectothermic, ...
The goal of proteomics is to identify or compar...
Radiometric dating methods, such as carbon-14 d...
What is the brightest star in the orion constel...
Which organelle specific to plant cells is resp...
     What is another word for thermal energy? heat
Roots grow in length and width from the primary...
What often form symbiotic associations with muc...
Name the fever that is caused by a virus that h...
What is the smallest planet in our solar system...
What is the term for when a substance boils and...
          Where are hormones released? bloodstream
     The union of gametes is called? fertilization
What type of behavior occurs naturally in all a...
What parts of comets make them easy to see? com...
    What gives the body shape and support? skeleon
What do you call sound that has a wave frequenc...
Plants not only contribute food but what else f...
Substances that act as both weak acids and base...
What is the medical process of removing wastes ...
What is the "a" horizon commonly known as? topsoil
       What are the building blocks of life? cells
The amount of energy needed to raise the temper...
What helps amplify the effects of extracellular...
What units are typically used to measure heats ...
What are solutions that maintain a relatively c...
Along with dna, what is the other main type of ...
Glutathione is a low-molecular-weight compound ...
What work together in pairs to bend or straight...
What are the outer-shell electrons of an atom c...
What kind of reproduction is vegetative reprodu...
What type of tissue runs the length of a stem i...
Birds have a relatively large heart and a rapid...
When a warm air mass becomes trapped between tw...
What is water falling from the sky called? prec...
What forms when atoms share or transfer valence...
Which part of the axon has a higher membrane po...
A diploid zygote is formed when one sperm does ...
As ph increases what happens to a solution? bec...
What is the term for changes in speed or direct...
What do aquatic mollusk species use for respira...
Because the solute is moving down the concentra...
What does fiber help keep at normal levels in t...
What is it called when plant roots absorb liqui...
Fossil fuels and nuclear power are what type of...
The stoichiometric coefficients indicate the re...
       Blood enters the heart in what valve? atria
What works through chemical reactions that chan...
What is necessary for new alleles to be created...
What does the placenta sustain during pregnancy...
Other than nitrogen, which nutrient most often ...
What astronomical phenomenon is often comprised...
Minerals are grouped based on what? chemical co...
What is the term for the average number of indi...
What is the shape of the thyroid gland? butterf...
Instead of using their nose, reptiles can use w...
How does the diaphragm look like when it is at ...
What is the smallest unit of matter that still ...
Evolution occurs by what process whereby better...
In flowering plants, male gametophytes are in g...
How many different ways can molecules pass thro...
Snow and rain are forms of what weather? precip...
There is a positive correlation between the abi...
         Most ocean waves are caused by what? wind
What kind of climates are found at or near the ...
The uranium series is a chain constituting one ...
Producing light without a high temperature is c...
Mutualism is a symbiotic relationship that has ...
What do you call chemical reactions that take p...
What types of blood cells are required for aero...
The phase transition of a substance changing fr...
What is the fracture called when rocks on both ...
In heart muscle, what released by neurons activ...
What do some plants produce that protects dorma...
In a generator, work done to turn the coil is c...
What do you call a pattern of stars in the nigh...
An antigen is a macromolecule that reacts with ...
The measure of a substances entropy at 25 degre...
Gastric emptying is regulated by both the stoma...
What is the type of cell division where the num...
What is the most common cause of lung cancer? t...
Some consumers such as the mushroom get their e...
What does the second number in a blood pressure...
 The rock of the mantle is mostly what? peridotite
Ocean ridges formed by marine invertebrates liv...
What compound is formed when there are sparking...
What is the number of protons in the nucleus? a...
What organism is at the top of the energy pyram...
What structure of the heart receives oxygen-poo...
Which organelle is often compared to a post off...
What takes both the shape and the volume of the...
What is the lowest level of organization that c...
Where are most of the organs contained in insec...
The appendicular skeleton is made up of all bon...
What can be thought of as the capacity a device...
What do electromagnetic receptors detect? elect...
Nutrients from food are absorbed by the blood f...
What occurs when plants release water vapor thr...
The stomach mucosa’s epithelial lining consists...
A substance too big to be pumped across the cel...
What is the process in which unstable nuclei be...
Most taste buds on the tongue are associated wi...
What is the lowest energy state of the atom cal...
What kind of diseases involve the immune system...
   Bacteria may divide several what an hour? times
The partial pressure of each gas in a mixture i...
The combination decomposition or rearrangement ...
              When is melatonin secreted? at night
In which phase do the chromosomes duplicate? in...
Which muscle is a band-like muscle that extends...
Filter feeders, such as sponges, pump water int...
              What are ionic solutes? electrolytes
As with other organic compounds that form hydro...
What is the tubular passageway through which th...
What has the average global temperature done si...
An solid object with an irregular shape can be ...
Deterioration of limestone occurs more rapidly ...
In which order does the reactivity of halogen g...
Photosynthesis converts carbon dioxide and wate...
Which genetic disorder results in the inability...
Most diseases caused by bacteria can be cured b...
What season do the largest waves for surfers ty...
The peripheral nervous system has major nerves ...
Each nitrogenous base has one or two rings that...
Pluto's orbit is so elliptical that sometimes i...
More than half the compounds produced by the ch...
What is it called when electrons are shared equ...
Ribosomes are cellular substructures where what...
How long can carbon be stored in sedimentary ro...
What do you call an animal in which the embryo,...
What is the most important element to life? carbon
The idea of evolution has been around for centu...
When a balloon is rubbed against hair, why do t...
Living things get energy from food in a process...
What is the name of the scientific field that d...
What kind of enzyme is phosphofructokinase? all...
Covering about 16 percent of the moon's surface...
Sickle cell disease is caused by production of ...
Who first proposed that earth is a magnet? will...
Which atomic model shows that the distances of ...
What is it called when breaks in bone occur tha...
What crystals consist of molecules at the latti...
What causes continents to drift closer to the p...
What is the major selective advantage of myelin...
What debated therapy offers a potential method ...
How many types of simple machines are there? si...
After dispersal of a seed, what next step may o...
What is the term for the smallest particle of a...
What are insect parasites transmitted sexually?...
What type of energy is used when a roller coast...
In what process is atp created by glycolysis, w...
What helps deposit the material in caves as sta...
A recent deadly explosion in the gulf of mexico...
Plants supply, ultimately, most of the food eat...
Chemical reactions are typically written to imp...
Single-celled eukaryotes that share some traits...
Antibiotics can be used to fight what, in gener...
An organism that carries pathogens from one ind...
What fills the epidermal cells that make up fin...
What is the name for a parasite that causes dis...
What type of map shows the elevation and featur...
What are organelles made of protein and ribosom...
What are major temperature zones primarily base...
What type of muscle is found in the walls of ot...
A visual "copy" of an object that is formed by ...
From the pharynx, air next passes through what ...
Vertebrates are all chordates that have a what?...
What do structures of the human eye collect and...
Different elements differ in the size, mass, an...
Breasts are considered accessory organs of what...
Because plants lack what kind of system, their ...
   What type of cells make up tumors? cancer cells
When leaves wilt, what plant process ceases? ph...
What type of tissue makes up much of the inside...
Saliva can carry the hiv virus, but it won't sp...
Does blood flow increase or decrease when blood...
 What is venus covered in a thick layer of? clouds
What type of aquifer is trapped between two imp...
Name the multi-phase process in which the nucle...
What is the term for the basic contractile unit...
What are chemical messengers that control sexua...
What are species that are first to colonize a d...
       What planet is the easiest to observe? mars
Where does the heartbeat originate in vertebrat...
What is a process where some substances called ...
Cellulose is the main structural component of w...
What is a push or a pull acting on an object? f...
Which organ will bladder infections commonly da...
What is the acid that is released by the stomac...
What occurs when force is applied to a moving o...
Smooth, cardiac, and skeletal are all types of ...
What group of elements does sodium belong to? a...
Pure constructive interference and pure destruc...
The process of photosynthesis uses chlorophyll,...
What kind of oily substance is secreted from se...
Some reactions need extra help to occur quickly...
What have approximately the same mass as proton...
Amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling can...
What do you call aquatic biomes in the ocean? m...
The reaction of which body system causes food a...
Leaving tampons in for too long can put you at ...
There are three flat skeletal muscles in the an...
The dead, dry stratum corneum is the most super...
What protein is produced when a plasma cell is ...
An unbalanced force on an object in motion caus...
Partial albinism results from a mutation in an ...
Where does a baby travel to after leaving the u...
Name an important natural resource in and of it...
In classical conditioning, a response called th...
What kind of bonds does boron form rather than ...
What broad group of living things serves as the...
Birds that move pollen from flower to flower ar...
The major cause of outdoor air pollution is the...
What is the ideal mechanical advantage in the s...
What science is the study of matter and the cha...
What is driven by the sun's energy and moves wa...
What are materials that are poor thermal conduc...
Balanced chemical reactions are balanced in wha...
The autonomic nervous system serves as the rela...
The role that a particular species plays in its...
     What element has the atomic number 16? sulfur
Name the most famous satellite of the earth? th...
What is the minimum number of loops a circuit c...
What type of organism is algae? bacteria (cyano...
When water slows down, it starts depositing sed...
Because they control many cell activities - as ...
Contraction of what large, sheet-like muscle re...
What type of ionic compound is formed from acid...
The iron ion used to bind oxygen is on what typ...
In police radar, a radar gun sends out short bu...
Oxides of small, highly charged ions of what ty...
A lewis acid is a substance that accepts a pair...
What is the amount of force pushing against a g...
  What is another word for seed plants? gymnosperm
What process takes place when echinoderms relea...
Salt hydrolysis is a reaction in which one of t...
Do motile cilia usually occur in small or large...
Potassium is a soft, silvery metal that ignites...
When a solid substance is involved in a chemica...
Which word describes how an extracellular solut...
The process where eroded material is dropped so...
What was the first amino acid to be isolated? a...
Where is the food stored before being mixed wit...
What kind of biome or climate might you find ve...
What type of waves travel through the body of a...
What type of energy occurs by splitting the nuc...
Like skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle is what? s...
Rising and falling levels of what will result i...
What is the term for how much matter is packed ...
Phototrophic organisms capture light energy fro...
What is an animal that picks up pollen on its b...
How many bones make up an adult human skeleton?...
The process in which a sperm unites with an egg...
What is the term for the height of the wave? am...
When a plant has what deficiency, guard cells m...
What is a combination of two or more substances...
What does subduction of a plate lead to? meltin...
The mixture of gases that surrounds the planet ...
What system protects the soft organs of the bod...
Before the atmosphere became oxygenated, the pl...
Turbulent sounds, at the onset of blood flow wh...
What is the simple sugar that living things us ...
Reversing the orientation of a chromosomal segm...
What does the clitellum secrete, while the sper...
What forms when water vapor condenses around pa...
The cycle of copper reacting is a good example ...
      A ramp is an example of what? inclined plane
What kind of muscle is responsible for hollow o...
In vascular plants, do primary roots grow downw...
What type of light has shorter wavelengths than...
What characteristic of the endothelium structur...
What type of bonds contain atoms that possess e...
The body contains how many types of muscle tiss...
The eyes of all vertebrates possess a single on...
The final stage of labor is delivery of the wha...
All proteins are made of monomers called what? ...
What system consists of all the muscles of the ...
Photoautotrophs and chemoautotrophs are two bas...
Many genetic disorders are caused by mutations ...
In some cases, the nervous system directly stim...
What kind of reproduction results in offspring ...
When traveling through space what do mechanical...
How many types of major tissues do modern plant...
How does a reduced sweating ability affect elde...
What substance do developing seeds produce whic...
Different clouds are associated with different ...
The testes produce sperm and secrete what? test...
Friction does negative work and removes some of...
What happens when forces of evolution work over...
What measurement is used to describe the amount...
Sebaceous glands produce an oily substance call...
In what kind of a series does the genetic code ...
Free-flowing electrons enable what materials to...
What is the difference in voltage across a resi...
What is the science that describes the ancestra...
According to collision theory, particles that l...
Muscles that move what long bone originate on t...
In an atom, what is determined by electron dist...
What term is defined as a way of writing very l...
Electrons are always added to which energy leve...
 What type of symmetry do echinoderms show? radial
    Nails cover the tips of what? fingers and toes
Which carrier molecule becomes less effective a...
    What is found at the top of the stamen? pollen
What field of study is called the language of s...
What is the term for tough, flexible connective...
Liquid water changing to water vapor is called?...
What is used to prevent some infectious disease...
The change in the characteristics of living thi...
What provides building materials for the body? ...
What is the term for animals that eat producers...
Farsightedness, or hyperopia, is the condition ...
Melting ice and grinding wood into sawdust are ...
In humans and other multicellular organisms, di...
How much unpolarized light does a polarized fil...
What is the term for cellular eating? phagocytosis
Genes are used to make mrna by the process of t...
What is the most important way that humans comm...
Somatic, autonomic, and enteric structures are ...
Duckweed and cattails serve what role in the fo...
If humans were to artificially intervene and fe...
What causes lightning during a thunderstorm? di...
The human heart is located within what cavity? ...
What is the name of the symbiotic relationship ...
Living things need to take in nutrients so that...
Common forms of what include light, chemical an...
What is the job of hemoglobin in the body? tran...
What are the most numerous and diverse biochemi...
Loss of what eventually threatens other species...
          How many centimeters are in a meter? 100
What is the term of a phase change if solid wat...
What type of animals are known for being playfu...
Virtually all of the effects of pregnancy can b...
A mass suspended by a wire is a simple type of ...
The structure of the gas carbon dioxide consist...
What type of numerical figure is important in c...
What rod provides stiffness to counterbalance t...
What type of cell does the sperm cell fertilize...
Where does the most important monsoon in the wo...
           What is the earliest reptile? hylonomus
Which side of the heart does blood from the lun...
     Smog is a visible form of what? air pollution
Which therapy uses viruses to genetically modif...
Radiotherapy is effective against cancer becaus...
What type of cells are multiple small spaces lo...
When what element - whose name means "light bri...
Digestive enzymes secreted in the acidic enviro...
The majority of solids are what in nature? crys...
What are the most abundant unicellular algae in...
What term is used to describe the cellular stru...
What is the sun classified as on the main seque...
The term science comes from a latin word that m...
Lymph vessels, like veins, have what objects th...
Veins subdivide repeatedly and branch throughou...
What is the term for heat being transferred fro...
What is a group of organs that work together to...
What are specialized cells that are capable of ...
What did sir isaac newton's famous law help peo...
Compounds containing an atom of what element, b...
What line of latitude is an equal distance from...
What type of graph is useful for showing percen...
What substances affect the brain and influence ...
The reaction rate usually increases as the conc...
Atoms are composed of negatively charged electr...
Communication is any way that animals share wha...
What do the muscles of the gastrointestinal tra...
What is the fan-like superior region that forms...
What do jellyfish lack in their nervous system?...
Ingestive protists extend their cell wall and c...
What type of flowers offer no reward, such as n...
If an abnormal cell is not prevented from divid...
Vertebrates have evolved more complex digestive...
A trait controlled by a single gene that has tw...
What law states that energy cannot be created o...
How do mammals generate heat? maintaining high ...
What are small, icy objects that have very elli...
Is the most basic what is the most basic of the...
Which is the active ingredient of cereal crop d...
What type of structures evolved to do the same ...
What explains the spherical shape of ceres, onc...
What measures the height of the largest seismic...
What type of winds are created when more solar ...
Reptiles and birds are the only known living de...
Organism's changing over time is called? evolution
The law of conservation mass states that matter...
What help should you use for disposing hazardou...
Although surface waves are slowest, they do mos...
Fruit begins to ripen because what gas is relea...
Winter storms develop from what, which form at ...
Fungi absorb nutrients from the environment thr...
What do you call any process in which excess wa...
Earth's temperature will increase further as mo...
What happens to cells in a hypertonic solution ...
Digestion and respiration are both facilitated ...
What muscle is found only in the walls of the h...
The wave on a guitar string is transverse. the ...
How do leaves export sugar to roots and other n...
Some metals, such as gold and platinum, do not ...
What are floods a source of on a floodplain? nu...
Which process helps deaminate amino acids? tran...
What is each half of the cerebrum called? a hem...
During interphase, the cell undergoes normal gr...
What type of species have a large effect on the...
Which type of skeleton supports the animal, pro...
After cell division what are the two new cells ...
What are bacteria and archaea examples of? prok...
What gives a coil of copper wire the ability to...
Blood helps maintain homeostasis by stabilizing...
During sexual reproduction, the macronucleus di...
When naming this type of ion the ending of the ...
What is a random change in an organism's genes?...
Osseous tissue - the connective tissue that inc...
What is the name of the hollow nerve cord along...
What term is used to describe the amount of spa...
What are responsible for the bending movements ...
What are formed when primary pollutants interac...
The first reaction of the body to tissue damage...
Because these components of the endocrine syste...
Which theory explains how populations of organi...
What forms when the dna in the nucleus wraps ar...
What is the condition called where pimples form...
Whose laws of motion are the foundation of dyna...
Mutualism is a symbiotic relationship in which ...
What do you call a substance that cannot be bro...
What weather term describes what the temperatur...
What device uses electromagnetic induction to c...
What layer of soil usually does not have very s...
Which type of glaciers form in high mountains a...
What two types of junctions do animal cells hav...
Where does digestion take place within an incom...
Natural selection cannot create new variations ...
Gene expression is regulated primarily at the w...
What nullified the idea that all biological cat...
     A tadpole turns into what land mammal? a frog
In physics, what do you call devices that make ...
Mars appears red because of large amounts of wh...
What type of rocks are laid down horizontally w...
What are two types of frozen percipitation? sno...
The bond between the two nitrogen atoms is a wh...
What are the two most common silicates? feldspa...
Starch is a large, complex carbohydrate made of...
Newly duplicated chromosomes are divided into t...
As an erythrocyte matures in the red bone marro...
What is the tube-like device used to reliably m...
The conducting zone of the respiratory system i...
Aflatoxins are toxic, carcinogenic compounds re...
Four haploid spermatids form during meiosis fro...
Like people with type 1 diabetes, people with t...
Many species in rhizaria are among the organism...
What is the amount actually produced in a react...
Each group of organisms went through its own ev...
What term refers to the emission of material or...
Which feature in maps allows users to make corr...
What is the term for the maintenance of a stead...
Any structure inside a cell that is enclosed by...
  The earliest vertebrates were jawless what? fish
In which kind of water can less carbon dioxide ...
The cochlea is a shell-like structure that is f...
What is an electrically neutral compound with p...
Which direction does the sun, moon, and stars a...
Sulfate is used as a cleaning agent because it ...
Triceps and biceps muscles in the upper arm are...
Internal metabolism and the external environmen...
What is another term for stored energy? potenti...
What occur when elements switch places in compo...
          What does the human heart do? pump blood
What bond is the force of attraction that holds...
There are five primary tastes in humans: sweet,...
Are birds and mammals mainly exothermic or endo...
What are the high points in a transverse wave c...
Chemistry and physics are fields in what type o...
Pyramids of net production and biomass reflect ...
The rate of flow of charge in an electrical cir...
The vertebrate endoskeleton can also be called ...
What can be used to speed up biochemical reacti...
The abundance of this substance in the atmosphe...
Most cases of syphilis can be cured with what? ...
How can people access water in an aquifer that ...
What is the term for animals that have a backbo...
What type of animal that eats only or mainly in...
What do you call the zone in a body of water wh...
The sweat glands of the armpit are classified a...
Chitin is a substance that is found in what par...
What kind of air does a continental polar air m...
What do you call taxes placed on products that ...
What does the coefficient in front of an elemen...
Behaviors that occur naturally and are not lear...
Which is the dominant stage of the lifecycle of...
What is a specific region in space within which...
What changes from heat or pressure during metam...
Do most substances increase or decrease in size...
      The highest point of a wave is called? crest
What is the smallest part of an element called?...
Dermal tissue covers the outside of a plant in ...
After fluid collects in nephron tubules in the ...
What are external skeletons known as? exoskeletons
What is the name for the process where data in ...
What play an important role in the modulation o...
What preventative measure is often delivered by...
From observations as simple as blowing up a bal...
What is the scientific term for the amount of l...
What part of the muscle fibers cause shortening...
  How many electrons are in the hydrogen atom? one
If a solution contains so much solute that its ...
What term describes waves that transfer energy ...
What is the name of the mechanism in which soun...
Grasses such as wheat, rice, and corn are examp...
Humans have about 20,000 to 22,000 genes scatte...
What is the term for the use of radioactive dec...
On which ridge does iceland sit? mid-atlantic r...
How are the major families of organic compounds...
What do chemotrophs extract energy from? chemic...
Involved in balance, the semicircular canals ar...
Injuries can be prevented by getting proper wha...
Some leaves are attached to the plant stem by a...
    What is water vapor density known as? humidity
What is the name for the transfer of thermal en...
The mean free path for a gaseous molecule will ...
         What is the most common fossil fuel? coal
The weather conditions in an area over time is ...
Chemical symbols are useful to concisely repres...
Cell transport refers to the movement of substa...
What term describes the rate at which a device ...
What happens when a sodium atom loses an electr...
When a fluorine atom gains an electron, it beco...
The endocrine system consists of cells, tissues...
What is formed when two dna strands link togeth...
Particles of a gas are constantly moving and bu...
Which part of a leaf contains openings known as...
Which system transports oxygens to cells? circu...
What is the part of a plant whose primary role ...
Technically, any redox reaction can be set up t...
What percentage of all species that ever lived ...
  What is the diffusion of water known as? osmosis
What is it called when plants release water vap...
Earth goes through regular changes in its posit...
A symporter carries how many different molecule...
Large amounts of fuel are stored in skeletal mu...
Intrusive igneous rocks cool from magma slowly ...
What is the term used for the ability of salama...
           A winter storm is called what? blizzard
The trochophre, a unique larval form, is found ...
Within organs, arteries branch into what small ...
Diamond is extremely hard because of the strong...
Vertebrates. from the smallest of fish to us. o...
The fight or flight response and similar respon...
Deposition refers to when a gas changes to what...
Nuclear changes occur with a simultaneous relea...
The way of learning that involves reward and pu...
The sodium-potassium pump is an active transpor...
Mass multiplied by velocity equals what force? ...
How many years ago did early amniotes diverge i...
The intensity or rate of radiation emission ___...
For the most part, cognitive functions reside w...
What is the term for the force exerted by circu...
What does the precise pattern of a crystal depe...
Learning to get used to something after being e...
Is the digestive tract of many sharks longer or...
In the case of the thyroid hormone pathway, thy...
What increases the size of a population's gene ...
The heart and the arteries and veins are associ...
What do scientists believe are the oldest eukar...
What are used to balance chemical equations? co...
Endothermic and exothermic reactions differ in ...
What is the conversion of metals from their ore...
What is the predominant stage in the life cycle...
The reaction of an alkyl halide with an inorgan...
What sequence is the primary structure of a pro...
What are used to lift large masses of magnetic ...
Carbon behaves as a metal because it conducts w...
What is the first direct action of growth hormo...
What contains the spore-forming asci? the ascoc...
Fruit fly and brine shrimp hox genes have evolv...
Yolk is a very fragile substance found in the e...
         What do tadpoles change into? adult frogs
Earthworms and segmented worms belong to what p...
            What are most stis caused by? bacteria
What is the term for matter that does not let a...
Rain dissolves fertilizer in the soil, what car...
Each vertebral body has a large hole in the cen...
     Rust consists of oxides of what element? iron
Rising air currents carry water vapor into what...
Echinoderms have what type of body symmetry? ra...
What is used during filtration to push fluids a...
How many pathways do plants have for carbon fix...
What type of substance is any matter that has a...
Where are sperm produced in the process of sper...
What type of energy does chemosynthesis use to ...
The polymerase chain reaction is a way of makin...
Energy transfer between what kinds of levels is...
What kind of conditions are often inherited as ...
Without dinoflagellate symbionts, corals lose a...
What is the type of reproduction where part of ...
What is the name of the wind belt nearest the e...
What two phases does the cell cycle consist of?...
Atoms with the same atomic number but different...
Sphenodontia sphenodontia (“wedge tooth”) arose...
In a heterozygote with one dominant and one rec...
Any sound with a frequency above the highest au...
        Which organ secretes estrogen? the ovaries
Water-soluble carboxylic acids ionize slightly ...
Which kind of irrigation uses much less water t...
Fishes were the earliest example of what subphy...
What three things do animals require in order t...
What is broken during catabolic reactions, such...
The actual amount (mass) of gasoline left in th...
What do you call pure substances with unique pr...
What is the large muscle that extends across th...
What is less dense then either solids or liquid...
What is the term for a mountain-building event?...
A multiaxial ball-and-socket joint has much mor...
Meiosis and mitosis are both preceded by one ro...
What is the hollow sac like organ that stores u...
What is the name of the magnetic material found...
What is a branded polymer that serves as energy...
Milk is usually subjected to what process, wher...
What do you call something that controls the up...
Plastics are common examples of synthetic polym...
Magnetite crystals of different ages and on dif...
Protozoa can be classified on the basis of how ...
Biomass, solar, wind, water, and geothermal pow...
What type of gases are the least reactive of al...
The cells of most eukaryotic and many prokaryot...
What kind of rock's makeup is changed by heat a...
Most scientists think that ordinary matter make...
In machines that increase force, such as ramps ...
What type of galaxies are oval shaped, red or y...
What is the term for something in the environme...
What is the mildest type of brain injury? concu...
Isobaric expansion is a process occurring witho...
What is the term for the process of exposing a ...
Why will water balloons launched into the air e...
What type of behaviors do not have to be learne...
Terrestrial biomes are classified by the climat...
A flower's colors come from what part of the pl...
What stages in the life of a cell does the cell...
What do you call the type of molecular signals ...
What type of device uses electromagnetic induct...
Mutations cannot be passed on to offspring if t...
What layer high in the atmosphere protects livi...
What occurs over a large area when a rock is bu...
The uterus has an external opening known as wha...
Plants face two types of enemies: herbivores an...
What organism carries out only fermentation or ...
What are the smallest type of blood vessel? cap...
What type of behavior is most flexible? learned...
In the water molecule, two of the electron pair...
What are the basic building blocks of the human...
What is the medial bone of the forearm that run...
The animal kingdom can also be divided into two...
These microorganisms are abundant in the human ...
When both objects have a positive charge what w...
       What are ocean waves mainly caused by? wind
What type of archaea live in salty environments...
What can be thought of as the fundamental unit ...
What type of organism is a bacteria? single-cel...
What chemical element is required for a combust...
What do wind turbines turn wind energy into? el...
A simple sugar such as fructose or glucose is a...
The fossilized skeleton of archaeopteryx looks ...
Blood volume increases substantially during pre...
All of the land drained by a river system is ca...
What does the gizzard in birds contain that all...
Equal and oppositely directed forces produce wh...
Organs are groups of what working together? tis...
Deep water filling a void caused by surface win...
What devices do astronomers use to see objects ...
What type of winds blow only over a limited are...
What is the term for the spacing of individuals...
What is the minimum number of pulleys needed fo...
Magnetic force is always perpendicular to what?...
What is the region in the center back of the ey...
What is it called when a human has an extra aut...
Carboxylic acids can form what with alcohols? e...
What are the two types of semiconductors? n-typ...
What is the term for organisms that live in ext...
What is a capillary bed that filters blood prin...
Minerals form when they precipitate from hot fl...
Mass spectrometry today is used extensively in ...
What helps treat bacterial infections in people...
  Which has more electrons, neon or fluorine? neon
What kind of process occurs naturally under cer...
Gradual degradation of a material due to its ex...
What is the name for a matter that has a fixed ...
German doctor rudolf virchow first discovered w...
What was the first mass extinction that occurre...
 What type of habitat do ferns need to grow? moist
G2 and s are phases in what process that is imp...
             Solar energy travels in what? photons
 What type of joint is the knee joint? hinge joint
What state of matter takes the shape and volume...
What is a high concentrated solution typically ...
The joints that are between the bones that make...
What weather phenomenon increases the rate of w...
            What is pluto now called? dwarf planet
Tidal volume, expiratory reserve volume, inspir...
What kind of a relationship do plants and soil ...
What is the process of generating electric curr...
The adrenal cortex directly influences the func...
What type of direction does a phase change depe...
The strength of what depends on the concentrati...
What are the largest phylum in the animal kingd...
  What kind of organisms are yeasts? single-celled
What kind of bond consists of one sigma bond an...
What is the purpose of utilizing careful farmin...
What do communication satellites carry and use ...
What is the biogeochemical cycle that recycles ...
What type of behavior is frogs croaking or deer...
An atom can be classified as a particular eleme...
In the body, what essential substance is pumped...
What (nh3) is one of the few thermodynamically ...
What does increased temperature cause the volum...
Which effect causes winds to strike the polar f...
 Birds evolved from what type of ancestor? reptile
Which blood cells serve to defend the body in v...
Eutherian mammals possess a specialized structu...
Which part of the brain secretes hormones that ...
Most reptile eggs can be laid on land, not in w...
What do you call a small whole number placed in...
Because the earth is covered with vegetation, c...
The energy of a photon is directly proportional...
What term means the amount of space matter take...
All of the stages that a cell goes through make...
What term is used to describe birds that mate f...
What branch of science offers an overview of th...
In atherosclerosis, thickening of an arterial w...
Moist skin distinguishes frogs from what animal...
Scientists perform experiments to test their hy...
What is the term for movement toward light? pho...
Ultraviolet radiation has the highest energy; w...
What kind of proteins either activate or deacti...
What occurs when the pancreas doesn’t make enou...
According to the octet rule, magnesium is unsta...
What make distant objects appear both nearer an...
The atmosphere consists of oxygen, nitrogen, ca...
What is the oxygen-storing protein found in div...
The modern atomic theory states that all matter...
Pressure has a significant effect on the solubi...
The site of some nutrient absorption, the ileum...
If both atoms are the same, they have the same ...
What forms when oceanic crust subducts into the...
The skin plays an important role in preventing ...
Which area of the human heart pumps the blood t...
What moves sediments after they have formed? er...
What involves the emission of a particle and/or...
Certain anaerobic parabasalid species exist in ...
What do you call a group of cells of the same k...
What is the name of a reactant in an enzymatic ...
The ideal gas law is used like any other gas la...
What is a reaction in which an atom or molecule...
What is the main problem in both types of diabe...
The structure of mitochondrion plays an importa...
Topographic maps have a horizontal scale to ind...
What can occur when one end of a small diameter...
What kind of system do echinoderms possess? wat...
Fossils provide a window into the past. they ar...
Dominant alleles rarely cause what type of diso...
Near-earth asteroids cross paths with earth, me...
Reflected in their relatively high level of int...
This inverse relationship between solubility an...
Energy from sunlight enters many ecosystems thr...
What is the world’s most serious resource probl...
Quarks also have a different type of charge, ca...
Thylakoids in a chloroplast contain what plant ...
The expulsion stage begins when the fetal head ...
What type of waste is likely to explode? explos...
Named after the dutch physicist, the van de gra...
A substance that displays different colors when...
What is the name for the study of the plants an...
   What does urine leave the body through? urethra
What type of plant is the dominant group of lan...
What term is used to describe a process in whic...
Poetically speaking, nature reserves are island...
Reactive elements are able to combine more what...
What do scientists attach to aquatic animals to...
Upon ovulation, the oocyte released by the ovar...
Giardiasis and malaria are diseases caused by w...
The number of waves that pass a fixed point in ...
The name carbon tetrachloride implies one carbo...
Most of a mushroom's surface area is actually w...
Interneurons carry what back and forth between ...
What are the mineral deposits that fill in unde...
Some of the small moons of saturn are found wit...
An image that is double the size of the object ...
What is made up of bands of cells that contract...
What is the name of the muscular tube that carr...
              Tissues are organized by what? cells
Carbon released by burning fossil fuels contrib...
What are a class of biochemical compounds that ...
  Which element has an atomic number of 16? sulfur
Fossil evidence indicates that the ancestors of...
What will spores that eventually germinate deve...
A binary molecular compound is made up of two o...
Sound, like all waves, travels at a certain spe...
                Do bacteria sexually reproduce? no
What is type of sugar is produced through photo...
The light-sensing cells in the retina are calle...
Lampreys possess a large round sucker, lined wi...
What is the type of plant that has a single cot...
What element is essential for amino acid and nu...
In plants and algae where does photosynthesis t...
What is crucial for the fermentation progress i...
What hormone does the endocrine system secrete ...
What part of the sporophyte produces microspore...
This calcification prevents diffusion of nutrie...
What is the greek word meaning "to help make th...
High levels of radiation can remove electrons f...
What is the only planet we know that has plate ...
Variation in muscle cells gives further insight...
Violet and red are two types of what kind of li...
The duodenum is a part of which part of the gi ...
A complete ionic equation is a chemical equatio...
The barrier defenses are not a response to infe...
A minority of people on earth use up most of th...
Groundwater dissolves minerals and carries the ...
What is the area of our universe that isn't sta...
What neurotransmitter is associated with the fi...
What do scientists think are the oldest eukaryo...
Geologists found that the youngest rocks on the...
The stability of an ecosystem depends on the ac...
Anabolic steroids, a form of the male sex hormo...
What is the only planet that is known to suppor...
                 Where is food stored? the stomach
The vertebrae are divided into the cervical reg...
What was used to measure the distance between t...
Upon entering the vestibular canal, the pressur...
Water is formed from oxygen and what other elem...
What is the period from earth's origin to the b...
In a displacement graph, the slope of the line ...
What is the process by which producers use the ...
What is the term for something that limits the ...
Where is glucose carried in the human body? the...
What are large glaciers that cover a larger are...
What type of reproduction do fungi engage in? a...
What system transports minerals and water in a ...
What is the exchange of energy from one part of...
If environmental conditions deteriorate, many s...
In what subgroup are oligochaetes classified? p...
The crocodilia order, which includes crocodiles...
  What fluid is most prevalent in your body? water
What are negative electrons attracted to? posit...
The largest phylum in the animal kingdom, arthr...
Which country is formed by a hotspot along the ...
What is an atom or group of bonded atoms that h...
What type of reproduction produces offspring fr...
Invertebrates make up what percentage of all an...
What do monotremes lack though they have hair a...
What is muscle tissue that is attached to the b...
What results from the evaporation of sea water?...
The human body regulates the use and storage of...
What planet did the voyager 1 spacecraft visit ...
What is the shortest phase of the sexual respon...
What is the name of the process by which plants...
          Animals need plants for food and? energy
The product of a wave's wavelength and its freq...
How did lamarck believe species change over tim...
Which is larger: the human sperm or the human e...
What kind of reaction is a reaction in which tw...
              What is beyond the atmosphere? space
What structure does methane have? three dimensi...
What is the blastocyst called after implantatio...
What rate is generally higher for endotherms th...
What phylum includes snails, squids and clams? ...
What is the change in a species over time? evol...
       What are the largest known proteins? titins
What term is used to describe the organism that...
Untreated botulism is typically fatal because m...
The combined magnetic force of the magnetized w...
Where do two or more bones of the skeleton meet...
Lacking a bony endoskeleton, sharks, rays, and ...
What process involves the flow of heat from war...
What broad category of animals shows adaptation...
What term is used to describe the tendency of a...
What controls earth's magnetosphere? magnetic f...
In humans, pharyngeal slits later develop into ...
What phenomenon involves the forcing of a subst...
What are used as model organisms in molecular b...
The bones of the newborn skull are not fully os...
With logistic growth, how does population growt...
What determines the color of visible light? exa...
What do eukaryotic cells have that compartmenta...
Earth rotates on its axis once each day and rev...
What are the two types of fatty acids? saturate...
Lipids are available to the body from how many ...
What is a silver-colored alkaline earth metal t...
Statoliths are starch-filled plastids that enab...
How does lysozyme destroy bacteria? by digestin...
The primary role of leaves is to collect what? ...
Temperature can be defined as the average of wh...
          What lens shape corrects myopia? concave
What serves to replace nonreproducing specializ...
In physics, resistance is opposition to the flo...
What organs are the main organs of the urinary ...
        What phase follows ovulation? luteal phase
What is used to measure blood pressure? sphygmo...
Are the lungs organs of the excretory system, t...
Light has the properties of both a wave and wha...
    Hagfishes have a skull made of what? cartilage
Water molds are commonly found in moist soil an...
What is considered to be a person's entire gene...
Where does cellular respiration occur? mitochon...
What are jellyfish and other cnidarian's stinge...
What is tube-shaped and brings urine from the k...
When solvent molecules selectively pass through...
Water seeping into the ground is known as? infi...
What body system gets rid of waste? excretory s...
Through what form of energy transfer does the s...
What are the only regions of space that electro...
What appears in autumn when cool air moves over...
All cells need what for processes like active t...
In certain populations, some of the chromosomes...
What occurs as a result of the discharge of sta...
Enzymes are a type of what, and as such, they a...
The entire volume of what is filtered through t...
The elements in group 2 are called what? alkali...
What term decribes the amount of time required ...
What occurs when water lost by transpiration is...
Molds, pollen, and pet dander are examples of a...
Neurons are classified based on the direction i...
What is the process of making an observation in...
What makes monotremes different than other mamm...
The strength of bases is measured on what scale...
What type of isomers contain the same number of...
What is the gas that gives rotten eggs and sewa...
What two values does a blood pressure reading i...
In humans, what period lasts from the ninth wee...
Where are protons found in the atom? in the nuc...
What is produced when haploid gametes fuse in s...
What are the two different types of vascular ti...
During which stage of development do all the ma...
At the anode, liquid chloride ions are oxidized...
A diploid cell contains two sets of what? chrom...
On what basis are lipoproteins classified? density
The two ovaries are small, oval organs on eithe...
Gas exchange during respiration occurs primaril...
Enzymes in the stomach and small intestine brea...
Organisms incapable of photosynthesis that must...
What allows theories to be widely accepted? evi...
Elements that specifically are noted to have pr...
What is the measure of change in velocity of a ...
What celestial events are the source of element...
Algae are similar to plants in that they both p...
What do fungi produce to digest nutrients? exoe...
When light passes from one medium to another, i...
The distance between the crests of electromagne...
People with celiac disease have an immune respo...
Chlorophyll is used in what food-making process...
What does an ammeter measure the flow of? curre...
Burning forests, growing rice and raising lives...
What type of pollution comes from sewage, storm...
What does oil do when mixed with water? forms d...
What is the term for the movement of individual...
What might a scientist do to confirm the work o...
Polar molecules result from differences in elec...
A diver's air bubbles increase in size as he ap...
Positive charge is mostly found in what part of...
In the lens makers' equation, diverging lenses ...
    What is another name for producers? autotrophs
Consisting of a stigma, style, and ovary, the p...
Chewing insects such as dragonflies and grassho...
What kind of change occurs whenever matter chan...
What is a small, relatively simple single-celle...
The golgi apparatus works like a mail room by r...
Which part of the body has mucus and hair to tr...
What are the structures in the cytoplasm where ...
What is the key issue in the small-population a...
What is the minimum depth in the aphotic zone? ...
What is the process by which plants gain energy...
What are embedded in the membranes of b cells a...
A statement that describes what always happens ...
What developmental stage do alligators lack tha...
         What attaches a muscle to a bone? tendons
What are two common weather characteristics of ...
What kind of organism causes the often fatal lu...
Where do plates move apart in oceans and on lan...
Zeros that appear in front of all of the nonzer...
What consists of thylakoid membranes surrounded...
Portable amplifiers have batteries that store w...
The movement of ice causes glaciers to have cra...
A muscle can return to its original length when...
What feature of the spine helps with flexibilit...
How does a cell's membrane keep extracellular m...
Respiratory development in the embryo begins ar...
Anything that occupies space and has mass is kn...
The temperature dependence of solubility can be...
Glasses are mixtures of oxides, the main compon...
What type of tissue produces and secretes sever...
What is the process in which organ systems work...
What must people with type 1 and type 2 diabete...
What is it called when two alleles are both exp...
What part of a spider is equipped with poison g...
Esters are neutral compounds that undergo what ...
Evolution occurs because of changes in what ove...
When does coal release most of its energy? when...
What was once believed to be the smallest of al...
The actinides are all what type of elements? ra...
What type of feeders are sea lilies and feather...
What are the proteins called that speed up bioc...
What isotope of carbon is typically used to dat...
What two planets is the asteroid belt found bet...
When wood is burned what kind of energy allows ...
The cubic crystal system is composed of how man...
In which solution is the amount of dissolved ma...
What element is the most common element in the ...
What is the term for anything that has mass and...
What is in danger of happening when thick magma...
The important equation pv = nrt holds true for ...
The measurement of the extent of something alon...
What force explains why objects may float in wa...
Which organelle is made up of 5 to eight cup sh...
How many bones does the mammalian middle ear ha...
What can echinoderms sense with their simple ey...
What do we call water that has been used for cl...
What is the name for an area that is covered in...
Regulation of the reproductive system is a proc...
What occurs when organisms acquire and pass on ...
What process provides more than 99% of energy? ...
What tissue blocks entry of pathogens in mammal...
What in the axils of leaves and stems give rise...
The existence of what tiny, fundamental particl...
Animals that defend their area are generally kn...
A boiler converts the chemical energy stored in...
What are the ice crystals that form on the grou...
What is the largest organelle in a eukaryotic c...
What does the kinetic-molecular theory describe...
What kind of hormones are released into the env...
What organ contributes about 60% of the volume ...
Eukaryotic cells contain what type of structure...
What is the common name for the midpoint betwee...
What is formed when humid air near the ground c...
When are peptide bonds between amino acids form...
Within the petals are two whorls of fertile flo...
Increasing or decreasing the temperature of a s...
The scientific name of an organism consists of ...
What type of organism was the only able to live...
Scientists utilize what natural process to teac...
What are mass, volume, and length an example of...
Chelicerata are know for their first pair of ap...
What kind of reproduction generates new individ...
The properties of liquids are intermediate betw...
What does blood pickup from the lungs to be car...
The earliest types of what lacked flowers, leav...
   The nervous system is made up of these? neurons
What are regular changes in biology or behavior...
Did darwin believe in punctuated equilibrium or...
What is the term for a solution that resists dr...
Wood consists of mainly what kind of walls? sec...
Viruses lack metabolic enzymes and equipment fo...
What are non-steroid hormones made of? amino acids
The german physicist max planck (1858–1947) use...
The process of microscope mountains and valleys...
What do you call any device that makes work eas...
In what organ is food remains turned into solid...
What is the type of cancer where bone marrow pr...
What cells are typically characterized by the p...
Condensation, melting, deposition, sublimation,...
Myopia and hyperopia are defects that can be co...
What do you call the part of the skeletal syste...
What type of molecules sit within a membrane an...
What state of matter has a definite volume, but...
    Where does the earth gets its energy from? sun
In chemical reactions, what substances can act ...
In the lungs, air is diverted into smaller and ...
How did a vascular let plants grow? they could ...
When a soluble compound dissolves, its constitu...
Many viral diseases can be prevented by giving ...
What purpose does the appendix serve in humans ...
What is the bulb called in the frontal lobe tha...
According to early accounts, newton was inspire...
Gravitational force on a large scale dominates ...
What two microorganisms have different membrane...
Sharing a phylum with insects, spiders, daddy-l...
What describes the amount of solute in a soluti...
What is the layer above the mesophere called? s...
The fundamental unit of time, the second, is ba...
In a carbon triple bond, how many pairs of elec...
What is the reproductive part of the plant? the...
The attraction of an atom for the electrons of ...
What substance do the leaves of plants take in ...
Controlled variables are kept what to prevent t...
What branch of biology uses fossils to study li...
What occurs after gametes fuse and form a diplo...
What is a trait whose allele is found on a sex ...
What is required when electrons are removed fro...
What do you call the angle of the earth's axis ...
What kind of structure do purines have? double ...
Photoautotrophs use what energy source to self-...
What is the process of getting oxygen into the ...
What are plants that grow where people don't wa...
Unlike ammonia, oxygen cannot be liquefied at r...
             What occurs at joints? body movements
What is the term for a symbiotic relationship i...
Alpha particles, beta particles, and gamma part...
     What do obligate aerobes need to live? oxygen
  What is the standard measurement for mass? grams
What do you call the state in which a plant slo...
Is the rate of population growth increasing or ...
What does the human protein cytokine help fight...
   What is the goal of science? increase knowledge
What is the temperature where molecular motion ...
Early blastomeres can form what if isolated? a ...
What component of an organism, made up of many ...
What form do alkali metals take at room tempera...
What is the cutting and burning trees to clear ...
What is the name of the scientist who named neu...
What creates a new seafloor at the mid-ocean ri...
What are hydrocarbons that contain only single ...
The presence of what makes soil hold together m...
What kind of anatomical structure consists of s...
How many pathways do plants have for carbon fix...
What is used to measure electric current? galva...
What connects the fetus to the placenta? umbili...
When your body digests food, it breaks down the...
The first period of the paleozoic era was calle...
What is a molecule with two fatty acids and a m...
Some women experience cramping and pain before ...
What is the attraction of oppositely charged io...
What process converts the sun's hydrogen nuclei...
Both solids and liquids hold a definite what? v...
Because the fields that make up an electromagne...
Which measure indicates the number of electrons...
Because force and electric field are what, they...
Acceleration is a vector, and thus has a both a...
What is it called when individual organisms wor...
How thick is the earth's continental crust, on ...
Which organ has a thick mucus lining that prote...
What historical event taught people that soil c...
In what phase is the moon brightly illuminated?...
What do vectors possess that scalars do not? ma...
What are the food making factories of plants? l...
What does a pollinator pick from its body and c...
Melting ice cubes and freezing water are exampl...
What is the term for heterotrophs that eat only...
How much work is done when a force is applied i...
The mercury or alcohol in a common glass what c...
What are commonly used to control insect pests,...
The components of what keep their own identity ...
    What type of light can mosquitoes see? infared
What subject is a way of learning about the nat...
Chloroplasts are present only in cells of eukar...
Shielding should be used when receiving x-rays ...
What is the way animals act either alone or wit...
What three primary colors of light can be disti...
Which body system releases hormones that act on...
What is the main difference between eukaryotic ...
What forms when cells start to grow out of cont...
Organs, vessels, and lymph make up what system?...
Like the marketplace, the metabolic economy is ...
As roots grow longer they will always do what? ...
       Which virus causes cold sores? herpes virus
Duplicated chromosomes are composed of two sist...
What is the name of anything that has mass and ...
The units of time, day and year are based on wh...
What is the term for an amount of force pushing...
What is the region called where an electron is ...
Many glasses eventually crystallize, rendering ...
What is magnetism produced by an electrical cur...
A weak and temporary dipole that influences nea...
The motion of molecules in a gas is random in m...
What helps the cell continually renew itself? l...
One of the fundamental laws of chemistry deals ...
What are the tiny, tube-shaped structures found...
How many sperm does it take to fertilize an egg...
What type of climate is found mostly near the e...
Metabolism is the collection of what that occur...
What is the arrangement of a t-tubule with the ...
What is the name of the order that salamanders ...
What is the tough tissue that contains collagen...
What common ailment is typically caused by tens...
          How many watts equals a horse power? 745
Some microorganisms can digest cellulose, break...
Where does most geological activity take place?...
What can be used to mechanically separate the t...
What forms when a solute dissolves in a solvent...
The enteric nervous system provides intrinsic i...
Virtually all aquatic organisms depend directly...
Saltwater is a homogeneous mixture, another ter...
What connects the two hemispheres of the brain?...
Cells like a prokaryotic cell, a eukaryotic cel...
Colonial organisms were probably one of the fir...
What do you call accumulation of excess water i...
Transport epithelia that function in maintainin...
What is magnetism produced by electricity calle...
What is an area that is saturated with water or...
How are bacteria identified and classified? by ...
What do we call forces that act on the system f...
Prostaglandins also help regulate the aggregati...
Deceleration is the opposite of what? acceleration
Each cell and every living thing requires what?...
In the human body, what do you call the interse...
Air conditioning systems can incubate certain b...
The toothlessness of modern birds, which serves...
What are the active transport mechanisms by whi...
Fractures, rickets, and osteoarthritis all affe...
Name the closest living relatives of tetrapods?...
What type of air may get stuck on the windward ...
Most protists are aquatic organisms and need wh...
The help with diffusion comes from special prot...
The extracellular matrix of most animal cells c...
What are two types of lobe finned fish? coelaca...
What is the rate of change of velocity called? ...
What is the main organ required for respiration...
Molecules are represented by symbols that all w...
What is the smallest unit of time commonly base...
Atoms cannot be subdivided, created, or what? d...
What process changes a liquid to a gas without ...
Every peripheral nerve is connected directly or...
The four phases of mitosis are prophase, metaph...
Pathogenic prokaryotes usually cause illness by...
Once cells _______, they can no longer divide d...
Phase labels - and even special conditions - ar...
Body waves travel through the earth and arrive ...
What are the outpocketings of the digestive tra...
What were the first photosynthetic organisms on...
What do you call the substance in a cooling sys...
Certain characteristics are frequently inherite...
Which organ protects the body from injury, wate...
What is the term for the sudden movement of lar...
What is the comparison of two factors within a ...
What process is the opposite of nitrogen fixati...
Plant-like protists produce oxygen through whic...
Insulin is produced by what part of the body? p...
What color is the brittle metalloid tallurium? ...
What compounds, which serve as fuels and are us...
What is the main type of organism that gets its...
What are the two factors that affect the pressu...
What consists of four major components: inorgan...
What is the term for the movement of substances...
Most metals exist in which form at room tempera...
A stem cell is an unspecialized cell that can d...
What monthy cycle causes changes in the ovaries...
Chytridiomycota are considered the most primiti...
What is a soft, gray, nontoxic alkaline earth m...
In many polychaetes, the parapodia are richly s...
What is formed when plant bodies are lithified?...
What is the term for the direct manipulation of...
When both momentum and kinetic energy are conse...
What are the two groups of therian mammals? pla...
What is the name of the spacecraft that has per...
What is the group of all the eukaryotes that ar...
What have a symbiotic relationship between a fu...
                 Define motion. change of position
Most tissues regulated by the autonomic nervous...
What is responsible for the development of anti...
Many cancers, as well as autism, are thought to...
The first plants probably evolved from what? aq...
What is the unit of liquid measurement in the m...
Wavelength and frequency are defined in the sam...
What covers the body of a fish to help the move...
What type of bond forms by unpaired electrons f...
When gas pressure-forces are used to move an ob...
A lymphocyte is the type of which cell involved...
Most fossils form when a dead organism is burie...
What do you call an object that attracts certai...
Coral and the algae living inside of them have ...
Because opposite charges attract, oppositely ch...
A major source of primary pollutants is the bur...
   What causes natural ripening in fruit? ethylene
In species with sexual reproduction, each cell ...
On what part of bones would you expect to find ...
Who invented the taxonomic classification syste...
What type of pathogen is responsible for africa...
How many underlying principles does the science...
What are biochemical compounds, such as fats an...
The temperature at which all molecular motion h...
What term means controlling body temperature wi...
The most important characteristic of extant amp...
 Fertilized mollusk eggs develop into what? larvae
Proper kidney function is essential for homeost...
Proteins include 20 common types of what compou...
Isotopes have different number of these in thei...
What can destroy living cells, produce mutation...
  What type of feeders are sponges? filter feeders
The first consumption of breast milk or formula...
Weight refers to what force acting on a mass? g...
Being exposed to sunlight will produce what vit...
Modern plants reflect what kind of changes that...
What device measures current that flows through...
In science, what is defined as a change in posi...
What makes up the core of the endoskeleton? ver...
The bottom of the ocean is called what? the ben...
Made of hot, solid rock, the mantle is beneath ...
What happens to the volume of the gas when temp...
Meiosis, like mitosis, is preceded by the dupli...
The invention of what instrument in the 1930s a...
What is the name of the chart that allows you t...
What is the functional unit of compact bone? os...
Because the nuclei of each h atom contain proto...
What is the term for when the phenotype of offs...
Natural methods of asexual reproduction, such a...
Many metals react with acids to produce what ga...
What is the process of a cell membrane surround...
What type of rocks are very useful for determin...
What is the term for dating a rock based on com...
What is the term for a very rapid motor respons...
Crossover occurs between non-sister chromatids ...
       Water is an oxide of what element? hydrogen
What term is used to describe the parts of the ...
Experiments show that each o2 molecule has two ...
 Acidity is measured by what physical property? ph
Antacids are bases that neutralize what in the ...
What is the climate of a small area called? mic...
The rate of what process depends on how many of...
The sticky stigma at the tip of the carpel rece...
Are the joints between the vertebrae contained ...
Which branch of biology uses fossils to study l...
What do you call prokaryotes that do not need o...
When a glacier no longer moves, what is it call...
What did roots evolve from that plants used for...
Although lots of symbiotic relationships help b...
What are named for major physical or climatic f...
Similarity of crystal structures is used to cat...
Diabetes is a non-infectious disease in which t...
All living organisms are classified into one of...
What is the most common type of cancer in adult...
What occurs when an unstable nucleus emits an a...
What molecule can be used by the body to synthe...
Full siblings share how many genes with each ot...
Which highly valuable substance found in jewelr...
Sperm propel themselves through secretions in t...
What type of minerals are often found where sea...
How many amino acids generally consist in proti...
Rain, snow, sleet, and hail are all examples of...
Where would you find most pollution of ocean wa...
Water can be a solid, liquid, and what other fo...
What happens to a species when all of the indiv...
The viscosity of a liquid is a measure of what?...
How is energy expressed when it is released in ...
What is the term for a structure within the cyt...
What part of a mature plant cell is responsible...
Whereas each cell shares the same genome and dn...
In biology, what is required for ecosystems to ...
Because glucose is a major cellular fuel, starc...
Seed plants that produce seeds in the ovaries o...
Which blood vessels is oxygen transferred throu...
What small biological structures make up all li...
How does carbon dioxide chemically weather rock...
What is the interaction of waves with other wav...
What kinds of rocks can change and become new t...
What type of earthquake has a shallow focus bec...
What causes waves to bring sand up onto the bea...
What kind of bases completely dissociate in wat...
What model of the atom features an electron orb...
Nearly all apicomplexans are parasites of what?...
What is the term for sheets of cells that form ...
What does a cell need to transform into a cance...
Circular water waves decrease in what property ...
What property of certain states of matter can b...
Loss of energy is the reason that what typicall...
Root-like projections anchor adults of what col...
We divide up the earth's seas into five what, w...
Regulated by guard cells, stomata allow what to...
The rising and sinking of these can cause preci...
Where does evidence that magnetic reversals occ...
   What is used to measure air pressure? barometer
As altitude rises, what happens to the temperat...
How many stomach compartments do ruminants have...
Seismic waves show that the inner core of the e...
What do ions of the same charge do? repel each ...
Integral proteins penetrate the hydrophobic int...
The thermal properties of what substance largel...
Our sun is on the main sequence, like most star...
Stirring, surface area, and temperature affect ...
What process of gradual change is the source of...
Shivering helps the body return to a stable wha...
What term is used to describe a solution in whi...
             What is prosopagnosia? face blindness
Fungi are unique in having cell walls made of w...
 What is the largest body in the solar system? sun
Which part of an earthquake is in the ground wh...
What substances contained in lemons, vinegar, a...
Many microorganisms are single celled and use w...
Because it produces oxygen, what plant process ...
What category of animals in the vertebrate grou...
What distinguishing feature predates the branch...
The simplest way to define a base is which kind...
What is the term for behaviors that are closely...
In the forward reaction, hydrogen and iodine co...
Catalysts can greatly increase the rates of che...
Ecology, botany, and zoology are what type of s...
How do we describe chemical reactions? chemical...
Represented in equations by the letter "g", wha...
The similarity in biochemical compounds between...
The only invertebrates than can fly belong to w...
The dna is wound around proteins called what? h...
What part of an animal helps to prevent water l...
Protozoa are generally difficult to identify du...
 Where does digestion begin? gastrovascular cavity
What basic units are neither created nor destro...
Which members of the food chain break down rema...
Concentration is the removal of solvent, which ...
What type of coal deposits are the most extensi...
What is the term for the skeletal structure of ...
What is it called when organisms with traits th...
A crow that becomes used to a scarecrow and lan...
What term is used to describe the sequence of e...
Structurally, diplomonads have two equal-sized ...
What is the term for the affected factor in an ...
Furthermore, most of the proteins within membra...
What are proteins that increase the rate of bio...
What process enables all living things to maint...
Which hormone is secreted by the pancreas in a ...
What are the gas giants mostly made of . hydrog...
Static friction acts on objects when they are r...
The ammonium ion is what type of acid? brønsted...
Loss of muscle mass due to breakdown of structu...
Which of these is last if ordered in increasing...
What encloses the genetic material of the virus...
        Plant-like protists are called what? algae
How do mammals ventilate their lungs? negative ...
Blood vessels blood pumped by the heart flows t...
What do you call the fragments of cells involve...
What year did the soho spacecraft first started...
Concentration of what, the substance left behin...
What has a distinct front and back end? volvox ...
In how many basic was can substances cross the ...
 What type of cells have chloroplasts? plant cells
What is the term for disease-causing agents, su...
To figure out the height of a wave you measure ...
Humans possess greater diversity of what type, ...
What system can be used by scientists to expres...
An unknown genotype can be determined by observ...
Wind power, solar power, hydropower, and geothe...
How much electricity is generated by an average...
What is the term for a cellular "scaffolding" t...
What common code do all known living organisms ...
What are 2 common growth patterns of population...
Solutions to schrödinger’s equation involve fou...
  What is the only human cell with flagella? sperm
What can be described as a tiny male gametophyt...
What is the largest artery in the body called? ...
Fertilization occurs if a sperm enters the egg ...
When the smooth muscle relaxes, the arterioles ...
              What to tadpoles develop into? frogs
What part of the body do fish use to absorb oxy...
The electrons in a water molecule are more conc...
What is the layer of ground below the surface t...
   What is usually the prey of a protist? bacteria
What concentrates wave energy or disperses it? ...
In plants and algae, photosynthesis takes place...
What produces sound waves that travel outward i...
The roots of a plant take in nutrients and what...
Carbon fixation is the first step of what cycle...
What are the attractive forces that occur betwe...
The production of multiple copies of a single g...
Fossil fuels are made out of what two objects? ...
Amoebas and paramecia are examples of what? pro...
Name the bacteria that make food through photos...
What simple machine consists of a bar that rota...
Which carbohydrate is produced by photosynthesi...
What term is used to describe the line of latit...
What is the opening formed between adjacent ver...
What two planets is the asteroid belt found bet...
     Neon is an example of what kind of gas? noble
Many organisms look very similar to other organ...
What type of compound is hydrogen chloride? cov...
What kind of volcanic eruptions are less deadly...
Where do most ecosystems get their energy from?...
When a solute dissolves into a solvent what is ...
The smallest part of an element that maintains ...
         Varves form in lakes covered by what? ice
Speed takes distance and what else into account...
Which division of the autonomic nervous system ...
What does the ovule develop into after fertiliz...
What is a key factor in the growth of populatio...
Air is said to reach what point, a term used by...
In neurons, what often involves gated sodium ch...
Line graphs are especially useful for showing c...
After a massive eruption what will a mountain c...
The posterior half of the foot is formed by sev...
What helps to regulate consciousness, arousal, ...
Some fish will be over-fished to the point that...
Not surprisingly, what is the function of the m...
What type of roots enable a plant to grow on an...
What is the distance north or south of the equa...
In response to a cut, mast cells secrete histam...
What is the term for an ionic compound that pro...
The stems of all vascular plants get longer thr...
What kind of waves are electromagnetic waves? t...
What process is involved in the formation of a ...
Meissner’s corpuscles are not as plentiful in t...
What are the two types of earth crust? oceanic ...
What is determined by the energy of the disturb...
What is made from the minerals in rocks known a...
What is a defining feature of deformed sediment...
Resemblance to other species can serve as prote...
What type of cells make up the epidermis of a l...
What carries warm or cold water throughout the ...
What type of resource cannot be replaced as eas...
What substances are involved in most of the che...
What occurs when the immune system is not worki...
The force that a magnet exerts on certain mater...
What is applied to a rock to make it bend and f...
What is the function of chloroplasts that are f...
What passes through the prostate gland immediat...
Terrestrial animals lose water by evaporation f...
      What color are leukocytes blood cells? white
What is something that all machines must overco...
The conservation of momentum principle can be a...
What are the small units that comprise nucleic ...
Minerals that are not pure elements are made of...
What can be classified as monoprotic or polypro...
What is the top part of water able to receive e...
Different media affect what property of light? ...
Signals from rods and cones can follow several ...
What is the term for getting used to something ...
What element do nuclear power plants use in fue...
 Where on earth do bacteria live? all environments
What type of waves radiate energy out from an e...
What is a popular treatment for kidney failure?...
What is critical for the formation of hemoglobi...
Which hormones work together to control the lev...
What are the two basic parts that all flowering...
Salts are important in maintaining what balance...
What do some animals grow to protect themselves...
What weather phenomenon can raise sea level as ...
The action of sunlight on the skin triggers the...
What is heard when sound waves bounce back from...
What is hole that is dug or drilled through the...
What protective substance covers the skin of mo...
What step, involving placement of a substance o...
What weather phenomenon is caused by strong war...
The older parts of what structures anchor the p...
What do you call a specialized type of plant ti...
The major fuel for the brain is which carbohydr...
        How do they classify tornadoes? wind speed
What part of the body does hepatitis b effect? ...
In the radiative zone, light particles called w...
What natural resource can be damaged by the acc...
           What secures teeth in the mouth? socket
What is the production of offspring without gam...
What causes continents to drift closer to the p...
What does a hypothesis become after many experi...
Geologists group rocks based on how they what? ...
What organelle contains the genetic material of...
What kind of waves travel through liquids and s...
What is made by trees and other plants during p...
Regardless of the mode, light is modeled as tra...
What are organisms called, like the red-winged ...
What is a common name for the descriptive hypot...
Exemplified by a lit match bursting into flame ...
What is the best room in the home to start savi...
Latitude affects the amount of which radiation ...
What physical property of matter reflects how c...
What is the force of attraction between fundame...
The force that pulls objects toward the earth i...
What is the distance something travels in a giv...
One type of tissue, called brown fat, is made u...
Abnormal electrical activity in the brain is th...
Because atoms are always electrically neutral, ...
What is the group of single-celled organisms la...
What are electromagnetic waves created by? osci...
What is the first stage of cellular respiration...
Red algae and green algae are the closest relat...
The axial skeleton forms the vertical, central ...
What is an object that orbits a larger object c...
When atoms gain or lose electrons, what is form...
Lymph capillaries collect the fluid that leaks ...
Asthma affects what tiny branches into which th...
The difference between aldehydes and ketones is...
A plane mirror has a flat reflective surface an...
Dissolved fertilizer can ultimately lead to the...
When the hydrogen is nearly used up, the star c...
What type of cell has negative anode is positiv...
Which human body system controls the amount of ...
Rounded grains indicate that the minerals erode...
Changes of state of matter do not involve what ...
What type of mining is used to recover ores tha...
What are liverworts with a flattened, ribbon-li...
What is made up of organisms of the same specie...
The oxygen atom in a water molecule pull the el...
Are zeroes that show only where the decimal poi...
Torpor, a process that leads to a decrease in a...
What produces gametes with different alleles? h...
What term is used to describe structures that a...
What is defined as a saturated layer of rock or...
Air flows into the lungs largely due to a diffe...
The cytoplasm divides during what stage of the ...
Researchers have also used insect courtship to ...
What part of the brain lies under the cerebrum ...
In human females, the mammary glands are associ...
    What is the term for volcanic mudflows? lahars
During the scientific revolution, who proposed ...
Quantum chromodynamics combines what property w...
Traits inherited in mendelian patterns are eith...
What kind of reproduction results in offspring ...
How many vertebrae make up the human vertebral ...
   What do cells of dermal tissue secrete? cuticle
What is the term for many different types of an...
What is a process in which some substances chan...
What causes nitrate to go back to its gaseous n...
What is the metabolic process by which cells ob...
           What weakly scatters visible light? air
Arteries carry oxygenated blood away from the h...
What type of analysis is performed to study gen...
What class are centipedes and millipedes in? my...
Light moving from air into water is bent ______...
An electrical signal along a nerve cell trigger...
Carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus ...
Urea and carbon dioxide are molecules with how ...
Half of the neurons formed in the embryo are el...
           What do omnivores eat? plants & animals
Upwelling mantle at the mid-ocean ridge pushes ...
Why are exotic species also called invasive spe...
The process of producing mature sperm is called...
Unlike theories, which are proved true, what ar...
What living things have cell walls containing c...
Where does the energy from an atomic bomb come ...
Removal of dams on rivers is an example of what...
What is considered the smallest unit of life? cell
What living things are considered photoautotrop...
Acids are molecular compounds that dissolve in ...
What is the terme for water vapor changing to l...
What processes involve a transfer of electrons ...
What happens when development of nervous system...
     What color is the fungus in blue cheese? blue
Not even light can escape from what extremely d...
The nucleus is comprised primarily of? empty space
What in mammalian lungs, increases the surface ...
What is the process by which some solids transi...
What are the two main parts of the human nervou...
In frequency, the larger the air column, the la...
Subducting plate and epicenter are terms relate...
What is the process by which organisms break do...
What is the term for an organism’s underlying g...
Which organ is a wide tube connecting the small...
What is produced when sulfur and oxygen combine...
Plant cells divide into two equal halves during...
What is the type of succession that happens aft...
The name of a monatomic cation is simply the na...
What is an extremely severe food allergy reacti...
What do you call the formation of a water vapor...
Internal body fluids link exchange surfaces to ...
What magnetism is produced by electricity? elec...
What is a type of plant tissue consisting of un...
What bonds form because they give atoms a more ...
What is the common abbreviation for noting the ...
Coral reefs are a type of what large community ...
What large organelle comprised of cup-shaped di...
The penis, testes and epididymes are structures...
When waves are reflected at the same angle, wha...
What us state leads all states in producing geo...
Sexual signaling molecules released by fungi ar...
Which energy is momentarily stored in tendons a...
What is the name for a simple machine that cons...
Each gamete will have one copy of each chromoso...
Where do most skin structures originate in? dermis
What are the primary producers in the ocean? ph...
Chemists use simple diagrams to show an atom’s ...
Soil erosion is a natural process, but what can...
Which part of the reproductive process only con...
What do you call different organs working toget...
A machine is any device that makes work easier ...
When electricity is passed through solid sodium...
What type of plant makes up nearly all plant sp...
Prokaryotic cells have what structure outside t...
The hemolymph and body cells exchange chemicals...
Types of compounds include covalent and which o...
Animals can transport what waste material in th...
What can happen if there is a blockage in circu...
The high points of a transverse wave are called...
Besides greenland, where are the earth's larges...
What kind of path does the energy of an electro...
The direct conversion of a solid to a gas, with...
Amino acids are the building blocks of what mac...
What force opposes a motion of a moving body? f...
The pain of angina means the heart muscle fiber...
Acids and bases are important in living things ...
Cellular respiration that proceeds in the prese...
Electromagnetic radiation behaves like particle...
Claw ends of hammers and flagpole pulleys are e...
           Lipids are also know by what name? fats
Roots, stems and leaves are organs commonly fou...
What type of cells in the body fluids and tissu...
What makes breathing difficult due to respirato...
What type of cell layer do flatworms have? meso...
What gland is located at the base of the brain ...
What are the most common roundworm parasites of...
What is the type of landscape that occurs at hi...
The existence of (virtual) photons is possible ...
What is energy that travels in the form of an e...
What changes water vapor to liquid water? conde...
What instrument, with a digital readout, is use...
What element is released into the atmosphere by...
What type of hydrocarbons contain at least one ...
What is the general name for a wave that travel...
Carbohydrates are an important group of biologi...
What types of drugs affect the brain and influe...
    Chemical reactions always involve what? energy
An object undergoing circular motion experience...
What rocks are formed by crystallization of che...
In some plants, the sporophyte is diploid, whil...
A lipid is one of a highly diverse group of com...
During mitosis what is replicated in the primar...
What can carry nerve impulses from tissues and ...
Chemical equations need to be balanced to satis...
Which species in class insecta has three body s...
Whether it's puppies or people, offspring and p...
Connected to agriculture, forestry, mining, and...
The hexapoda subphylum includes mainly what typ...
What are living echinoderms divided into five o...
Gases on earth originated from comets and what ...
What season is it in the southern hemisphere wh...
What is the name for areas where there is overl...
By what are skeletal muscles attached to bones?...
What is the best-known geyser in the world that...
What kind of energy constitutes the total kinet...
What is the name for birds that live on water l...
Spores are generally produced through what type...
What do we call the diffusion of water across a...
Scientific notation expresses a number as a wha...
How many valence electrons does a sodium atom h...
Within an organism, the cells that give rise to...
An external opening in the what of amphibians a...
What kind of scientists measure percentages of ...
What hormone affects developent and maturation ...
The three types of mammals are characterized by...
         What planet has the most volcanoes? venus
Gene duplications that are able to persist over...
 What keeps earth in orbit around the sun? gravity
The work-energy theorem states that the net wor...
Living organisms release carbon dioxide into th...
Excretory organs that conserve what essential s...
Venus rotates slowly in a direction opposite to...
                   What is the ph of pure water? 7
The volume of a gas is comprised of about 10% m...
Heterotrophs is another name for what group? co...
What is dna transcribed into after being replic...
What is name of the phenomenon where similar tr...
The flow of water through the sponge is unidire...
What is the process for developing knowledge ca...
Arteries, veins, and capillaries are the three ...
Amphibians may attract mates with what? calls o...
What type of bounded nucleus do protists have? ...
Which body part is unsuitable for animals livin...
Which inducer turns on the expression of the la...
What is the most common type of brain injury? c...
Changing the shape of an elastic material gives...
What type of traits are features that are passe...
  What is your body made up of? trillions of cells
Hemoglobin is responsible for transporting what...
        How do bipedal creatures walk? on two legs
Any sample of matter that has the same physical...
What is a measure of both speed and direction o...
What do fish eggs hatch to form? fish eggs hatc...
Commensalism, mutualism, and parasitism are kno...
The modern model of the atom, which scientists ...
Time, mass, length, and temperature are conside...
What does the heat energy affect in the atmosph...
What are the taste receptors found as tiny bump...
What is the chemical formula for a glucose mole...
In physics, the number of waves that pass a fix...
The reactions between alkali metals and water a...
Batteries produce voltage through what type of ...
The speed of a particle in what state is direct...
Acne results from a blockage of sebaceous gland...
Just as millions of different words are spelled...
Anaerobic respiration takes place without what?...
Which other planet in the solar system is the e...
What is in the inside of your mouth and nose in...
While matter is recycled, ecosystems need a con...
What is term for the smallest particle of an el...
What is the protein that carries iron that bind...
What branch of science is based on the modern a...
Why do sharks sense low levels of electricity? ...
What membrane is populated by two types of phot...
At what point can nutrients enter or exit an ec...
B cells and t cells are examples of what type o...
There are three different types of rna. all thr...
Niche and habitat are concepts related to what ...
What do opposite charges do to one another? att...
What is the name for the sinking of the dense, ...
When gas particles heat up and gain energy, wha...
Ion pumps, the biological machines responsible ...
Lack of proper food over a period of time can l...
Two water molecules contain 4 hydrogen atoms an...
The carrying angle is larger in females to acco...
Examples of organ systems in a human include th...
Most hormones are controlled by what type of fe...
What is the stage called for babies that are in...
What forms a barrier between the cytoplasm and ...
Over time, what changes solid rock into pieces?...
Eukaryotic cells undergo what kinds of division...
The orbicularis oris is a circular muscle that ...
What may have developed to help our ancestors d...
Which stage is specialized for dispersal & repr...
What three parameters do seismographs measure? ...
What topographic feature does a circle with inw...
Which temperatures cause particles of reactants...
Not all cells of a leaf carry out photosynthesi...
What is the advantage of selecting for certain ...
What is given off from plants and taken in by a...
What is the simplest unit that has the fundamen...
       Bacteria are what kind of cell? prokaryotes
What is the first stage of cellular respiration...
Who study volcanoes to be able to predict when ...
What is the term for electric current that keep...
      How many alleles comes from each parent? one
How close a measurement is to the correct value...
What pigment is required for photosynthesis to ...
What begins approximately six weeks after ferti...
What do you call the energy that must be overco...
Frogs and toads, salamanders and newts, and cae...
          What are vesicles made of? phospholipids
Deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) is nucleotide that ...
What two basic types of feather does a bird hav...
Which fuels provide most of the world’s energy?...
The cathode and anode collectively are the elec...
What part of the sweet potato store sugar from ...
What is the ratio of charge on a capacitor to p...
What substances that primarily comprise plasma ...
What type of friction is friction that acts on ...
Billions of what inside the human digestive tra...
In a controlled scientific study, what do you c...
What is a group of similar ecosystems with the ...
Since 1900, four of the five earthquakes of the...
All chemical changes involve a transfer of what...
What is the most common type of capillary? cont...
What is the bending of waves around a corner ca...
In what kind of bond does one atom contribute b...
Mirrors and lenses are used in optical instrume...
The zygote undergoes many cell divisions before...
What are carbonated beverages pressurized with?...
Which principle states that two species cannot ...
What happens to the rate of chemical reactions ...
An alternative to inclusive fitness is group se...
The complement system is a series of proteins c...
What are cations simply named after? the parent...
Inorganic chemistry refers to the study of mate...
How many chambers does an amphibian heart have?...
Electrons in the "outer shell" are also known a...
What is created when energy turns a turbine? el...
Where in the periodic table of elements are the...
How many different main types of diabetes are t...
Where do most amphibians live, salt water or fr...
Foliation, which forms layers in rocks during m...
What type of compounds tend to have high meltin...
What is the molten material deep within the ear...
Objects in motion that return to the same posit...
What function of the car is affected by the ped...
An atom that gains or loses electrons is called...
    What do you require to test a hypothesis? data
The first law of thermodynamics deals with the ...
What type of vehicles is able to go to the deep...
What is the turning effectiveness of a force? t...
What are the 3 orders of amphibians? frogs, sal...
The sum of the pressures of the hydrogen and th...
What is cellular respiration that proceeds in t...
Blood enters the kidney through the which arter...
Besides increasing the potential, how else can ...
What kingdom in the domain eukarya that include...
An excellent solvent that holds heat well and a...
Which part of the earth is made of the rigid, b...
What is liquid water falling from the sky calle...
The two general functions of roots in plants ar...
What do covalent bonds give atoms a more stable...
What is the most important process for the surv...
Which common element is the most found in livin...
What are the organelles on which proteins are m...
Chemistry is the study of matter and energy and...
What is the term for the relationship in which ...
Transport vesicles move what type of molecules ...
Fish use some of their fins to propel themselve...
This series of life stages and events that a se...
What are small gnawing mammals such as rats and...
Dutch scientist christiaan huygens' principle o...
Orbiting at a fairly typical 370 kilometers, th...
When plant type alternates from generation to g...
Which type of diabetes involves the pancreas no...
Halides of the transition metals become more co...
Dense connective tissue contains more collagen ...
What does pushing an object over the surface of...
Parasitism, mutualism, and commensalism are all...
What occurs when substances move from areas of ...
What is the term for how the air feels at its t...
What form does formaldehyde take at room temper...
Ions are formed when atoms gain or lose what? e...
What are the three ways to classify matter base...
In what area of the body are sutural bones foun...
The ability of matter to combine chemically wit...
Which types of waves are used for cell phones a...
Ticks spread bacteria that causes what conditio...
  Methyl groups are found within what? amino acids
The primary lymphoid organs are the bone marrow...
Surface tension and viscosity are generally ass...
What catalyst substances may also allow reactio...
Gap genes are defined by the effect of what in ...
The abnormal cells cannot carry oxygen properly...
All atoms of the same element share the same nu...
How do oceans help control global warming? abso...
What occurs between long warm climate periods? ...
Which state of matter is characterized by molec...
The plasma membrane pulls away from the cell wa...
What collects fluid from a system of canals in ...
What is the name of artificial barriers that pe...
  How many valence electrons does nitrogen have? 5
What is the term for a particle from outside th...
The kidney glomerulus filters blood mainly base...
What is the general composition of the continen...
What term refers to the conditions of the atmos...
Gases such as neon, argon, and krypton produce ...
By how many weeks do all major organs start dev...
Surface tension is a property that can be found...
A plant that forms special tissues for storing ...
What organ is made up of over one million nephr...
Human metabolism is the conversion of food into...
What organ do mammals have that is exceptionall...
Mammals have four limbs and produce what kind o...
Name the missing call of biochemical compound: ...
The ether functional group consists of an oxyge...
In celsius, what is the boiling point of water?...
What is the process where sperm from the pollen...
What is an organic compound made up of small mo...
A solute generally does what to the freezing po...
The quarks in a particle are confined, meaning ...
The monosaccharide glucose is broken down throu...
What is the primary gas produced from burning o...
What type of transport requires no energy and o...
What is the force of attraction between a posit...
How many times does the height of the largest w...
What does unequal heating of the atmosphere cau...
Which vitamin is made in the skin when it is ex...
During protein synthesis, ribosomes assemble wh...
If particles have enough kinetic energy to comp...
      Where is chlorine gas produced? at the anode
What is the study of energy and how it interact...
What structure of the body falls between cells ...
The relationships between groups of different s...
An offspring that inherits a mutation in a game...
How do organisms grow and repair themselves? ce...
What do halogens require electrons to achieve? ...
What is the percentage of earthquakes that take...
Despite their name, what scientists study the a...
What is an insect's hard outer exoskeleton made...
What illnesses are caused by damage to the alve...
What do you call a group of organisms of the sa...
All the genes in all the members of a populatio...
Although some have suggested that the uvula is ...
The differences in the biomes is due to differe...
What increases the chances of someone inheritin...
What is often the cause of phenotypic differenc...
What kind of equal and opposite forces cancel o...
What are two other terms for dizygotic twins, w...
Many diseases arise from genetic mutations that...
Pseudohypertrophic muscular dystrophy is an inh...
Plants obtain their energy from the sun through...
What type of fibrous joint is found between mos...
Innate behaviors occur in all animals. however,...
The periodic table is an arrangement of the ele...
What type of ions play critical roles in light-...
What moves nitrogen back and forth between the ...
What is caused by human actions that releases c...
The human body has as many as two trillion lymp...
What chemical substances are secreted by animal...
Hydropower is generated with what natural resou...
What are the three types of rocks? igneous, sed...
     How do yeasts reproduce asexually? by budding
          How many chromosomes are in each set? 23
Iron is oxidized to fe2+(aq) at an anodic site ...
Each species has a characteristic number of wha...
What is the name for tiny animals that feed on ...
What do marine autotrophs acquire in carbonic a...
Asexual, sexual, budding, and parthenogenesis a...
For an exothermic chemical reaction, energy is ...
Which is the ultimate energy source in a bear's...
Insect's antennae are useful for sensing what? ...
"endocrine" and "exocrine" are two types of wha...
What is the term for the movement of molecules ...
What factors determine the effect of a gene? al...
What type of craniates have backbones? vertebrates
What are the most numerous blood cells? red blo...
        How do autotrophs get food? make their own
In boys, what hormone stimulates the growth of ...
What is an ionic compound that produces negativ...
What is the name for the disease in which cells...
The period immediately following the transmissi...
What kinds of neutron stars emit radiation in p...
What is the change in behavior based on experie...
Competition with what emerging animal group may...
Within a bud, what is spaced close together bec...
What controls the opening to the airway and gut...
When there is no mass in a volume of space, the...
Cells selective for different odorants are inte...
What has revolutionized human society over the ...
What do you call the set of seventeen chemical ...
Broca’s area, responsible for the production of...
Which theory is the idea that the characteristi...
Phylum chordata consists of two subphyla of inv...
What forms when nitrogen and oxygen combine at ...
The posterior end of a typical rib is called wh...
What is the name of the process in which solid ...
The epidermis consists mainly of what type of c...
What is the microtubule-organizing center found...
Glucose and fructose are considered this type o...
How many orders can flying birds be divided int...
Two types of interference found in waves are co...
What is the name of the tube that carries sperm...
What effect occurs when a population suddenly g...
Matching donor and recipient blood types is imp...
Heavily vegetated lands are less likely to expe...
Unlike fibrous or cartilaginous joints, the art...
What do you call the relationship in which memb...
In vertebrates, a system of what structures att...
What does the central cell develop into after d...
What device is an electrochemical cell or serie...
                 Where does digestion begin? mouth
What kind of joints are capable of a wide range...
Hormones vary widely in molecular size and type...
What kingdom of organisms constitutes up to 20 ...
Scientists often classify or organize different...
The primary substance that human cells, and ult...
The genetic code is universal, unambiguous, and...
An electromagnetic wave begins with what moveme...
What are the sharp projections that specialized...
What is formed when water vapor in the air cond...
The main components of the circulatory system a...
From what do tubeworms found deep in the galapa...
What is water falling from the sky called? prec...
Coal, oil and natural gas are types of what for...
In a hot water heater, burning fuel causes the ...
     What is a force that opposes motion? friction
What is another term for a hand lens? magnifyin...
The anterior half of the foot is formed by the ...
What adjective describes the movements that pro...
What is transferred in an acid-base reaction hy...
What is the largest planet in our solar system?...
What does the ubiquitous generator use to gener...
What prevents soil erosion on a hillside that i...
What do the external female reproductive struct...
What is another name for collar cells? choanocytes
What involuntary muscle is found only in the he...
  Most sedimentary rocks form from what? sediments
What system serves as the relay between the cns...
When pumping blood, the hearts of animals with ...
The seasonal movements of animals from one area...
Falling onto what joint can fracture the distal...
What term is used to describe the energy reserv...
What is used to measure current through a resis...
When struck, how are the rigid crystals of ioni...
What type of matter transmits light without sca...
What is the term for the unconscious movements ...
What organism captures light energy and convert...
By applying salt to an icy road, the melting po...
How many pairs of chromosomes do human have ? 2...
            Where do polychaetes live? ocean floor
What term describes a gene or sequence on a chr...
What type of blood vessels carry blood away fro...
How many millions of years ago did pangaea begi...
Continental drift also promotes what speciation...
Which kind of mutations have the most dramatic ...
When skunks are in danger what do they give off...
What kind of reproduction produces genetically ...
Oceans help control global warming by absorbing...
A phase diagram plots temperature and what else...
What kind of hormones are derived from choleste...
Eukaryotic cell division involves mitosis and w...
Why do sodium and chloride ions attract each ot...
What layer of soil, essential for farming, has ...
What are the organized instructions within dna ...
Macrophages, which can swallow and destroy old ...
What is the distance between the nuclei of two ...
What is the term for water that contains one or...
Gall bladder removal surgery does not seriously...
The hepatitis virus attacks only cells of what ...
A rusty bike has been left outside in damp weat...
What two layers is the skin made of? epidermis ...
What are the three major types of blood vessels...
What is the name of the protective layer of gas...
What are colonies of cells stuck to a surface c...
Trichomoniasis is cause by what type of pathoge...
An increase in what, across the periodic table,...
How many pairs of chromosomes are in the human ...
What measure is resorted to by people who wish ...
            Who built the first telescope? galileo
Water can be boiled to kill giardia and most ot...
What do you call mixtures of ash and water that...
Why do homonuclear diatomic molecules have zero...
The types of white blood cells that arrive at a...
In what season are temperature inversions more ...
Are thunderstorms more likely where the ground ...
What type of diseases in humans are caused by p...
Shark teeth likely evolved from the jagged scal...
In the human ear, sound waves cause the stapes ...
What is the term for proportion of amount of pr...
What creates wet and dry zones at different lat...
What term is used to describe the total spread ...
Fermentation—of grains to produce beer, and of ...
    In which direction does water travel? downhill
The largest population size that can be support...
What are the smallest particles of elements tha...
Where does the christmas tree worm live? tropic...
What are biomes that occur where a river, a sou...
What continuously monitors and repairs its gene...
What are the large segments of the earth’s crus...
Which process causes rocks at the earth's surfa...
Chemical reactions always involve energy. when ...
Alzheimers disease is associated with memory lo...
What global cycle takes place on, above, and be...
Why are two different minerals considered diffe...
What type of mapping is critical for identifyin...
When menstrual periods become less frequent and...
What blood protein carries oxygen from the lung...
What is the most abundant element in the univer...
The product of a system’s mass multiplied by it...
In response to changing environmental condition...
What term means the time in which half of the o...
What is a shortage of water that causes the soi...
What are are segmented invertebrates in phylum ...
What is the connection between the two hemisphe...
Banging on a drum is an example of which type o...
      What do microbes use to make food? chemicals
Space telescopes avoid such problems completely...
Tendons connecting the scapula to the humerus f...
The number of particles of a substance in a giv...
Potential differences from various voltage sour...
What effect is caused by air moving over the ea...
The separation of compounds on the basis of the...
What is the process by which wind blows to make...
Because trees add water vapor to air, cutting d...
Some sea anemones establish what kind of relati...
Prokaryotic cells do not have a nucleus but ins...
What measures a fluid’s resistance to flow? vis...
What happens to the wire in a fuse if it's curr...
Polar climates include polar and which other ki...
What disease is given as an example of a sex-li...
      What type of feeders are earthworms? deposit
What part of the plant is the main site of phot...
Aluminosilicates are formed by replacing some o...
In a smoke detector, a battery in the electric ...
 Photochemical smog consists mainly of what? ozone
What lizards can change colors based on the col...
Lipids are organic compounds that consist of ca...
What do you call the force a machine applies to...
In scientific terms, average acceleration is th...
Some atoms are more stable when they gain or lo...
Like a blanket on a sleeping person, greenhouse...
What is the process in which a solid changes di...
How many forces do objects on earth have acting...
How often does sperm develop in humans? continu...
Scientists found that the youngest rocks on the...
The reproductive tissues of male and female hum...
Flatworms have a concentration of nerve tissue ...
What type of energy travels through matter in w...
What speeds up chemical reactions inside cells?...
What atmosphere do gills help exchange gas in? ...
Community interactions are important factors in...
The end of a pine tree branch bears the male co...
One seismogram indicates the distance to the wh...
What is the process of creating complementary s...
In ancient egypt gold mines were the property o...
The arid environment of a desert, for instance,...
What type of chemistry is the study of chemical...
What is the muscular organ shaped like an upsid...
What includes all the biotic and abiotic factor...
What is used for cooling detectors of infrared ...
What do we call something that pushes or pulls ...
Velocity is a vector that has both direction an...
What are the two classifications for organisms ...
Where are hotspot volcanoes commonly found? the...
The muscles of the anterior compartment of the ...
The presence of what, which acts as a trigger, ...
What do you call the splitting of the nucleus o...
What method is used to map the earth on flat pa...
   Water molds mostly live in water or moist? soil
What is the act of noting or detecting phenomen...
What two measurements are multiplied to find th...
What is the term for biologically meaningful dn...
Which common type of diabetes is also known as ...
Recognition of pathogens is a function of what ...
Typically done to find food or mates, what do y...
What is the vaccine to prevent infection of hpv...
Mineral crystals that form when magma cools are...
What element makes up the majority of coal? carbon
What do you call a simple machine consisting of...
What can be combined with an amine to form an a...
There are about 50,000 vertebrate species, and ...
In which kind of species do open circulatory sy...
Boyle’s law applies to matter which is in what ...
What do we call heated groundwater that erupts ...
Sensory organs that respond to particular senso...
How can we reduce use of energy resources? cons...
About 50% of all animal species died off betwee...
Transforming from a caterpillar to a butterfly ...
What two cycles make up the female reproductive...
Uranium is an example of a non-renewable resour...
One of the early signs of cell disease is this ...
What does the moving piston in an engine turn? ...
What type of chloride is a non-volatile materia...
In general, objects expand in all directions as...
Paddles and hammers are examples of simple mach...
What two things collide to cause gas pressure? ...
Every human cell has the same what, and each ce...
What are a class of tetrapod vertebrates that p...
What characteristic of reptile eggs allows them...
What part of the rainforest commonly has ferns ...
The primary function of insulin is to facilitat...
Spindle fibers form between the centrioles duri...
How many quarks are in each proton and neutron?...
    What is the year cycle that sunspots occur? 11
When an unstable nucleus emits radiation and is...
What is manufactured and added to foods to pres...
Scientists think that stars and galaxies make u...
Why are noninfectious diseases not contagious? ...
Organisms that "love" acids are known as what? ...
Which enzyme is used in step three of the polym...
What do scientists use to study the deep withou...
The hemisphere that is tilted away from the sun...
Like the strings of cello, anything that vibrat...
The point in the titration at which an indicato...
On a hot, dry day, plants close their stomata t...
What do you call the system of glands that rele...
Reactant concentrations are highest at which pa...
What happens to the temperature of a system dur...
What is the major cause of outdoor air pollutio...
Why does a metal spoon heat up quickly when pla...
What does the megaspore mother cell produce aft...
Synaptic connections can change over time depen...
What is the body of a roundworm covered with? t...
The end of the phospholipid molecule that is po...
     What is known as the universal solvent? water
Any organism that causes disease is called what...
Electric generators change kinetic energy to wh...
Brown algae are important commodities for what?...
What does the large central vacuole do? store w...
What is the ratio of solutes in a solution to a...
What type of rock contains concentrations of va...
How many digits do primates have on each extrem...
Dna is normally found within what region of a c...
Water and carbon dioxide molecules are reactant...
Gene therapy is a type of what kind of engineer...
What is mass number? the total number of proton...
What rises through solid rocks where conditions...
What is the connecting piece of a sperm packed ...
What is a diagram that shows a single way that ...
Different colors of light differ in terms of wh...
Ion drives have low thrust but high what? effic...
For most waves, energy is proportional to what,...
What are the primary causes of bone fractures? ...
Water is polar and has electrically charged end...
What is produced when a base is dissolved in wa...
   What do mammals conserve heat with? hair or fur
What is a mutation that changes all or much of ...
Defined as a difference in electric potential e...
What hydrocarbons contain only single bonds bet...
What is a decrease in the magnitude of the memb...
Water pollution occurs when chemicals, sewage, ...
Radioisotopes may vary greatly in their rate of...
Where can composite volcanoes most frequently b...
The digestive, excretory, and reproductive syst...
Vertebrates are a subphylum of what phylum? cho...
   What is the latin name for mercury? hydrargyrum
The brain is said to contain gray matter, while...
What type of behavior occurs naturally in all a...
What orbits an atoms' nucleus? negatively charg...
What are the three forms of water as found in n...
What type of digestion is chewing an example of...
How many major massive extinctions have been si...
What tool do scientist's use to show the evolut...
What kind of bonds are there between carbon ato...
In winter, water does what, becoming solid and ...
Unlike archaea and eukaryotes, bacteria have a ...
What happens to the crust if the moving oceanic...
Polygenic traits are controlled by more than on...
What system plays a critical role in the regula...
How many nonpolar bonds does an oxygen molecule...
What type of disease occurs when the immune sys...
What organism is an important pioneer on cleare...
What hypothetical link between development of h...
The term salt can refer to essentially any of w...
Where is the hypothalamus–pituitary complex loc...
Where is the guinea worm a serious problem? africa
The reaction of calcium oxide with carbon dioxi...
Cilia or flagella structures give protists what...
What is characterized by uncontrolled cell divi...
Our global ecological footprint depends on reso...
What do all sound waves begin with? vibrating m...
Animal starch, called glycogen, is stored in th...
Kepler's laws relate to the motion of what? pla...
 Colloids are used industrially as what? catalysts
What is defined as the temperature plus precipi...
What manages the material and energy resources ...
What is the midpiece of sperm packed with? mito...
Dry soils are relatively unproductive because p...
The vitamins and minerals contained in all of t...
What type of plants supplement their mineral nu...
            Daughter cells divide by what? meiosis
Phytochromes regulate many plant responses to w...
Carbon dioxide molecules consist of a central c...
Survivorship curves show the distribution of in...
Electrons are not shared equally between the tw...
     What is above each leaf scar? an axillary bud
Ultimately, the fluid that is lost from the blo...
What type energy sources emit fewer or no green...
Stars spend most of their lives on the main seq...
What is a measure of how hot or cold the air is...
Where are more of an insect's internal organs k...
What is the measure of kinetic energy of the pa...
What is the name for the tiny air sacs at the e...
What is the source of most of the energy used? ...
What flows across the membrane resulting in cha...
The standard reduction potential can be determi...
         What are proteins made up of? amino acids
What proteins synthesized in cells act as catal...
What element is the sun mostly made up of? hydr...
What shape is the gametophyte in ferns? heart-s...
What makes sunsets appear red? rayleigh scattering
Skeletal and muscular are examples of what type...
What is the process where light bounces back fr...
What are butterflies and bees an example of? po...
What are clouds that form on the ground called?...
What is formed when atoms of different elements...
Where a cell resides, how it appears, and what ...
What can be defined simply, as a change in posi...
What are mars' moons thought to be? captured as...
What is the main greenhouse gas causing global ...
A goiter is a visible indication of deficiency ...
Pale skin and reduced eyes in salamanders that ...
Kidney stones are considered a disease that aff...
The concentration of hydrogen ions in a solutio...
Within a group, the ionization energy decreases...
Temperature can affect what attribute of a siam...
   What type of locomotion do humans have? bipedal
Which equation improves upon the ideal gas law ...
What do chemical reactions need to be activated...
Compared to thoracic and lumbar types, the cerv...
Many plants generate root pressure during which...
The fuel rods are made of a corrosion-resistant...
Earthquake waves that travel trhough undergroun...
What is the final product of the calvin cycle? ...
What does an electric conductor cross to genera...
Splitting the nucleus of an atom produces a mas...
What are waves that pass a fixed point in a giv...
As temperature increases, the solubility of the...
The process in which animals use visual cues to...
What state is achieved when the forward and rev...
What are 3 types of light? infrared, visible, u...
What is an interation between organisms or spec...
What type of organism, including sea stars and ...
What is the term for a disease that is not cont...
Red bone marrow, tonsils, spleen, and thymus gl...
What is it called when you touch a charged obje...
What is the basic unit of structure and functio...
What are the three types of symbiotic relations...
What is the name of the major components of cel...
What organ breaks down excess amino acids and t...
    What do wavelengths measure the size of? waves
Lava flows from a volcano and hardens into what...
What is the term for coiled structures made of ...
Archaeans produce what kind of gas as a waste p...
The mole fraction of the solvent is just one mi...
Electromagnetic specturm is the full spectrum o...
What structures formed of twisted actin chains ...
What impact can plaque in an artery have on the...
   What type of charge do electrons have? negative
Which cells change the accessibility, transcrip...
In eukaryotes, the cell cycle consists of a lon...
Some biochemical processes happen via sequences...
Deep ocean currents are caused by differences i...
What forms when a glacier scrapes a large hole ...
What is needed to provide cells with the oxygen...
When magma cools slowly, what texture does it h...
The calvin cycle is the fancy name for the meta...
The use of mercury-based dental amalgam has gon...
Where does much of the blood that enters the at...
Batteries produce voltage through what type of ...
A globe is the best way to make a map of what? ...
Bond energy is an indication of the amount of e...
          What causes genetic disorders? mutations
Located above the stratosphere, what layer is t...
What composition determines both eruption type ...
In a pedigree what shape symbolizes males? squares
Mollusks are probably most closely related to o...
Which bonds are the strongest of the intermolec...
The community of all of the living and nonlivin...
What is the most common type of volcano? cinder...
What is the name of the the most efficient poss...
Carbon monoxide, radon gas, dust and pet dander...
What is the cause of existence of molecular sol...
Meningitis, for example, is caused by a viral o...
What doctors specialize in diseases stemming fr...
_________ are one-celled organisms with a nucle...
Chemical energy is another form of which energy...
Many species secrete a hard external skeleton o...
What is the most common pattern of dispersion? ...
Water droplets form when the air reaches 100-pe...
Any large molecule is referred to as what? macr...
The rocks that are taken from a mine are full o...
Organisms such as goldfish that can tolerate on...
In a liquid, the particles are still in close c...
What is the transfer of thermal energy between ...
Regularly performing weight-bearing exercise ca...
What do we call structures that have lost their...
What is the only way of transferring energy tha...
The layers of the atmosphere correspond with wh...
What do you call a type of mixture that has the...
What traits do the sponge and tarantula share? ...
Organisms are highly organized, coordinated str...
               What do voltmeters measure? voltage
What is the term for body parts that do not ser...
The soil beneath a deciduous forest is called w...
What is composed of a calcium cation and a nitr...
Not all structural rearrangements of chromosome...
Which molecules in the body holds energy? gluco...
What term is used for the difference in the pla...
What kind of reasoning involves formulating gen...
What kind of eruption do scientists think is ca...
The inside surface of the jejunum is covered wi...
What is the most effective color in interruptin...
What glands produce the salty fluid that helps ...
   What shape is the orbit of a planet? elliptical
What term is defined as the area where a specie...
What do fish have that allow them to “breathe” ...
The process in which materials move depending o...
What shape is each face of a tetrahedron? equil...
Glands release what substance into the blood? h...
What's the process responsible for the presence...
A rise in blood glucose levels triggers the pan...
 What do most ecosystems get energy from? sunlight
     What is the study of viruses called? virology
What do you call an animal that feeds on other ...
Most scientists think that ordinary matter is l...
What is the term for gases that absorb heat in ...
What is the type of cell division that produces...
What causes halide minerals to form? salt water...
Upon reaching the postsynaptic membrane, what t...
What do heterotrophic animals usually consume? ...
Molecules of gas are rare in what outermost reg...
Why is there very little evaporation in the bor...
Maltose, lactose, and sucrose are common types ...
Amplitude describes what about the wave's crest...
Overproduction of offspring, combined with limi...
What laws regulate radiation doses to which peo...
Digestive enzymes, including which enzyme, star...
In prokaryotes, what is composed of a single, d...
What is formed when nitrogen and sulfur oxides ...
Hydroelectric power harnesses the energy of wha...
Hydras and sea anemones are examples of what fo...
Tropical, temperate, continental, and polar are...
What is a longitudinal, flexible rod located be...
At high altitudes, acclimatization increases re...
What type of systemic response involves lymphoc...
What was the first object to form in the solar ...
Some materials have negative heats of solution;...
Where are most white blood cells made? the bone...
Blood flows from the right atrium to the right ...
           What are the male gametes called? sperm
What in hemoglobin gives red blood cells their ...
Alpha, beta and gamma are three types of what? ...
Red-green colorblindness is an example of what ...
What kind of radiation is greatest at the equat...
What are atoms or groups of atoms called which ...
   What are the salts of fatty acids called? soaps
What type of numbers specify the arrangement of...
What do atoms become if they lose or gain elect...
What is the breakdown of unstable elements into...
Observations suggest that a force applied to an...
How much exercise should a person ideally get d...
The electrolysis of what substance produces hyd...
What is the shorter loop of the cardiovascular ...
What is the first classification of igneous roc...
What is the very slow movement of rock and soil...
Which type of pressure forces fluid out of the ...
What hits the eardrum and causes it to vibrate?...
What type of ecologists work to identify and ma...
Name the two types of nucleic acids. dna (deoxy...
Interactions between plants and other organisms...
In places where crops grow only during part of ...
What does bowman's capsule form by surrounding ...
What do scientists use to help explain objects ...
Burning trees produces most of the same polluta...
During which process in bacteria do the chromos...
What is emitted by atoms that have been excited...
Translation is the process of ordering the amin...
What is the name of the group that rats are apa...
Fertilization occurs when what material from on...
What are the tiny packets of energy the sun giv...
In humans, each set of chromosomes contains 22 ...
What eukaryotic organisms cannot make their own...
What do ants and termites eat to help them dige...
How many types of glands does the dermis contai...
What is an upward force that fluids exert on an...
Atmospheric pressure is increased, causing a gr...
An axe head and a doorstop are types of what si...
Dna encodes instructions for what kind of molec...
     Who coined the term natural selection? darwin
When sand is deposited along a shoreline, what ...
Prosimians are thought to be more similar to th...
What arteries carry oxygen-poor blood away from...
What are the mass of threadlike filaments on th...
Ionic bonds between two atoms require one metal...
The pressurized gas of earth's atmosphere is co...
Cytokinins promote cell division and prevent wh...
Dna transcription is controlled by what type of...
Tubeworms deep in the galapagos rift get their ...
When female mammalian embryos consist of just a...
Oceans are divided into zones bases on distance...
If a mistake is made by dna polymerase while ad...
The common earthworm and leeches are examples o...
Elements involved in nuclear reactions are what...
Circadian rhythms and migration are examples of...
The articular cartilage is thickest in the uppe...
What are decomposers that feed on the organic m...
Heavier isotopes of plutonium are also produced...
What parts of the cell does cell differentiatio...
The head, thorax, and abdomen comprise what typ...
The renal hilum is the entry and exit site for ...
Photosynthesis changes light energy to what typ...
Fructose and lactose are types of sugars broken...
A complementary pair of chromosomes have genes ...
What dangerous oxygen compound is found in grou...
Large increases in the diversity of life have r...
      What is the source of most electricity? coal
What kind of motion characterizes waves? repeti...
Light reactions occur during which stage of pho...
What is used to measure, in degrees, the distan...
Radiation can be absorbed or shielded by materi...
What is the name for something that consists of...
The amniotic egg first evolved in what species?...
A largemouth bass is an example of a cold-blood...
What makes up the mass number of an atom? proto...
Clubmosses are not true mosses, though, because...
Europa and titan are names of what kind of cele...
What develops in depressions where water flow i...
All prokaryotic and some eukaryotic organisms r...
Where does photosynthesis occur in plants? in c...
  What is defined as force per unit area? pressure
What word describes a change in behavior that o...
What term means the abnormal or excessive exten...
Burning of methane is a type of what, which inv...
Transparent, translucent, or opaque are propert...
Hydrogen sulfide is a noxious and toxic gas pro...
What is the name of the body system that fights...
Incomplete dominance and epistasis are both ter...
What branch of biology focuses on heredity? gen...
The axon contains microtubules and neurofilamen...
What is the process by which a liquid changes t...
How are electrons shared in covalent bonds? equ...
What is the most electron-pair bonds a nitrogen...
The hypothalamus and pituitary gland are locate...
What is the most common type of cancer in adult...
Distance traveled divided by time is equal to w...
What are people called that choose to study sci...
What is the main cause of outdoor air pollution...
What is the term for organisms that can maintai...
What is the term for learning by watching and c...
What do we call scientists who study and foreca...
What are atoms called when they have the same n...
Neon, krypton and argon are examples of what ki...
What might arthropods use as legs for walking? ...
What kind of bonds, where electrons are transfe...
What happens when chemical bonds in a burning l...
When what common element forms single bonds wit...
What objects are made from highly reflective me...
Fractures, osteoarthritis, and rickets are prob...
The structure of a neuron allows it to rapidly ...
Earthquakes have both longitudinal and transver...
What do we call the theory of electromagnetism ...
What part of the continuous dermal tissue syste...
What may be the ancestor of placental mammals? ...
What are the two methods of logical thinking? i...
What is the amount of solute that can dissolve ...
What should a pregnant woman avoid while pregna...
Quantities have two parts: the number (how many...
What organ provides the integrative power that ...
What is the only mechanism that consistently ca...
What are four children born at one birth called...
What does liquid change to due to vaporization?...
Converging plates can be oceanic, continental, ...
Reptiles can be found on every continent except...
For photosynthesis to begin, the inputs require...
When a stalactite and stalagmite join together,...
What color does red litmus paper turn in the pr...
What is the term for the hard, round object pro...
What is the term for animal-like protists that ...
The cell membrane consists of two adjacent laye...
Echinoderms have a unique system for gas exchan...
What group includes the simplest eukaryotes, in...
Tropical rainforest, chaparral, and taiga are w...
One of the most advanced uses of what in medici...
What type of disease is muscular dystrophy? a w...
How many types of tissue are found in animals? ...
The sequence of bases in a gene translates to t...
Two or more what may bond with each other to fo...
Like animals, protozoa are heterotrophic and ca...
What term is used to describe a solute that is ...
What is the term for animals that cannot raise ...
Kidney stones can form anywhere in what system?...
What organ participates in all digestive activi...
What is calculated by adding together the atomi...
What term describes precipitation that flows ov...
At what point is water on the ph scale? neutral...
Would you find cells that contain a cell wall, ...
What system includes lymph organs, lymph vessel...
              What causes acid rain? air pollution
What helps ensure that, at least, some species ...
The airway and the lungs are part of what organ...
Air quality is a measure of what in the air? po...
Which factor often changes a protein from an in...
After the film is developed, any unexposed silv...
What force provides resistance whenever two sur...
What cycle is frequency measured in per second?...
What are the two types of cells? prokaryotes an...
In science, what do you call something that alw...
The pine tree is the sporophyte; its sporangia ...
Prokaryotic cells grow to a certain size and th...
What can increase the occurance of earthquakes?...
What term is used to describe organelles that a...
What is located at the center of our solar syst...
What is the leading cause of death worldwide? c...
Changes in the color of the statue of liberty o...
What is the top layer of water farther from sho...
Flatworms reproduce sexually. in most species, ...
The cytoplasm is all the contents of the cell i...
What is the study of forces in equilibrium? sta...
What body joint incurs the most common overuse ...
      Who is called the father of genetics? mendel
Each endocrine hormone affects only certain "ta...
What do we call the scientific study of heredit...
What do you call any substance in food that the...
What type of waves start when a source of energ...
What term describes the process where organisms...
As per the kinetic-molecular theory, in what di...
Cephalization refers to the development of what...
What term describes a region of space around an...
How do the male gorillas show display behaviors...
A genetic molecule is called dna, which stands ...
Is sleep an active or inactive state in the bra...
What is is a measurement of the force amplifica...
What branch of science is the study of the soli...
What is harmless water vapor, for a powerplant?...
What regulates the passage of blood into capill...
What do you call the symbiotic relationship whe...
What length of time is human gestation commonly...
What substance, involved in most biochemical re...
What type of tissue covers the outside of a pla...
Metamorphic rocks form when an existing rock is...
What anatomical structure serves as the conduit...
What cell structures are like storage centers a...
Oscillations in the transcription of certain ge...
Give an example of a ball-and-socket joint, whi...
Difference in electric potential energy are mea...
       How many stars are in our solar system? one
Landslides and mudslides are the most destructi...
What scientific word, which gives its name to a...
The sporophyte phase is the longest phase in th...
Hair color and skin color are known as what? tr...
Amines are classified according to the number o...
Because core electrons are closer to the nucleu...
The upper portion of the septum is formed by th...
Cells in green algae divide along cell plates c...
What are saprobes that decompose organic matter...
Because complex plant carbohydrates such as cel...
   What are all cells surrounded by? cell membrane
The leaves of all of what type of plants have t...
Through what do plants move enormous amounts of...
What explains why two different species cannot ...
The cytoplasm of prokaryotic cells has a high c...
What are the ultimate source of genetic variati...
The electron beam scans the surface of the samp...
In a longitudinal wave, what term is a measure ...
All cells have certain parts in common. these p...
Competition within a species is called what? in...
What occurs when rain falls more quickly than w...
  What are the building blocks of dna? nucleotides
Each line in a structural formula represents a ...
What do vertebrate chordates possess that inver...
In vascular plants, what two basic structures a...
What is the process resulting in living things ...
Solar cells create voltages directly from light...
What theory goes beyond classical mechanics to ...
What type of structure between the esophagus an...
Viroids are plant pathogens much simpler than w...
"crossing over" occurs during what phase of mit...
What is the preferred food for almost all prima...
What property means that something can return t...
Where does all igneous rock come from? magma or...
Three ways that waves may interact with matter ...
Sucrose consists of one molecule of glucose and...
Many countries have attempted to reduce the hum...
What occurs when arterioles lose their normal m...
Large or small numbers are expressed in scienti...
Budding in sponges is a form of what type of re...
Behaviors that are closely controlled by genes ...
Mutations which benefit the organism in which t...
When gas particles collide, what kinds of colli...
Around 1200 species of what broad animal group ...
The galápagos islands are a group of 16 volcani...
What structures on the gastrodermal cells keep ...
What is the factor that affects the solubility ...
What kind of ph would you find in water from bo...
Where do most of the digestion reactions occur?...
What is the name of the process where light is ...
Meats and dairy products link to photosynthesis...
What the scientific concept stating that when l...
What type of map would show average temperature...
What is the name of the sugar that plants produ...
Just under their skin, marine mammals have a ve...
While in the lungs, blood gives up carbon dioxi...
White blood cells called what travel to areas o...
How many valence electrons can be found in a ca...
Diaphragm, lungs, and trachea take air deep int...
What gases move in and out of blood during gas ...
What keeps various species from mating and repr...
A refrigerator must do work to reverse the norm...
The bone matrix consists of tough protein fiber...
Alkynes are what type of compound? unsaturated ...
Solar cells turn sunlight directly into what? e...
What type of invertebrate typically has a singl...
What are nutrients the body needs in relatively...
What is observed when two perpendicular flagell...
What is the name of a branch of the chemistry t...
Which system in the body exchanges gases with t...
What is a double membrane of the nucleus that e...
What is the highest taxon in the classification...
    Animal-like protists are called what? protozoa
Mating with no strong pair-bonds is called? pro...
Rna is especially important during synthesis of...
Like other bryophytes, moss plants spend most o...
What is the ring of hooks tapeworms use to atta...
What form because water erodes the outside of c...
Which waterfall series is the largest on the pl...
What term is used to describe modern seed plant...
What kind of joints does the skull have that do...
The shoulder and hip are examples of what type ...
The tails of the hale-bopp comet point away fro...
What type of virus can cause painful sores on t...
The flood of sodium ions through the symporter ...
Alternative current is produced when a magnet o...
What are the chemical formulas for covalent com...
What do secondary spermatocytes form when compl...
What is the name of the muscle that contracts t...
Name the process of removing wastes from the bo...
What term means the percentage by mass of each ...
Beaches and deserts collect large deposits of w...
What is the name for animals that have a backbo...
The attractive force between water molecules is...
Which procedure helps modern nuclear physics co...
Alkanes are nonpolar and therefore do not attra...
What do we call the lowest layer of the atmosph...
Oxygenated blood is transported by what system?...
Internal resistance, or (electrical) resistance...
What gas produced by fossil fuel use is a major...
     What supports most of earth's ecosystems? sun
Because carbohydrates have a carbonyl functiona...
What do earth and the other planets in the sola...
What do anglerfish use their glow-in-the-dark, ...
Surface tension is responsible for the fact tha...
What kind of muscle is responsible for making t...
Channel proteins and carrier proteins help subs...
Humans building communities to make survival ea...
When a lower energy level is ______ electrons a...
The amount of force applied per given area is c...
        What is the atomic number of magnesium? 12
After the egg is fertilized the mrna is transla...
What is the process that ventilates lungs calle...
What aspect of beryllium allows it to absorb x-...
What are drilled to monitor groundwater polluti...
The two smallest carboxylic acids are formic ac...
What incredibly successful species has quickly ...
What prepares the body for fight or flight duri...
   Gymnosperms have evolved to include what? seeds
How do gametophyte plants form haploid gametes?...
What french chemist discovered the radioactive ...
What is another term for the parabolic motion o...
Passive immunity arises from the transfer of wh...
At equilibrium reactants and what are equally a...
Mitochondria are thought to have evolved from w...
An acellular, external cuticle protects the ___...
The average number of individuals per unit of a...
What is the medical term for a condition caused...
       What is glucose used for the bacteria? food
                   What do carnivores eat? animals
What is algae easier to covert into that corn i...
Dividing net force by total mass yields what? a...
What ensures that seeds germinate only when con...
         The a in atp is short for what? adenosine
  How many fingers do apes have on each hand? five
Which atomic particle has a positive charge? th...
What does the presence of gill slits suggest ab...
What was first discovered in songbirds that pro...
Whether focused on ancient life, the life of ba...
What do we call the center of a hurricane where...
     Mass can be destroyed to release what? energy
Name the organ located behind the nasal cavity ...
Both mitosis and meiosis result in eukaryotic c...
In resting neurons, the plasma membrane has man...
The theory of evolution by what (and other proc...
What is formed when a monomer of glucose and a ...
What is the spread of cancer cells beyond their...
What is another name for flatworms such as tape...
The lithosphere-asthensophere divisions are bas...
The second shell holds a maximum of how many el...
Olfaction refers to which of the five senses? s...
What devices convert mechanical energy to elect...
When oxygen is not bound to heme and the partia...
What is group 16 of the periodic table referred...
Restoring nitrogen to the soil is one reason fo...
What is the term for evolution over geologic ti...
Is the heat of reaction positive or negative fo...
The superior nasal concha and middle nasal conc...
The energy a chemical reaction needs to get sta...
Crossing charges is one method for obtaining wh...
What do scientists collect to test a hypothesis...
Fatal swelling of what organ can result from bo...
Gases can undergo diffusion, or the opposite, w...
What science is the study of the occurrence, di...
Amphibian larvae go through what process to cha...
Reducing the production of what gas, or removin...
There are a series of rules for naming branched...
Which theory helps predict future events in wea...
What is defined as a group of living and nonliv...
Cancer is caused by mutations, which can be cau...
What is the term for a mutually beneficial rela...
All new alleles are formed by what types of mut...
What are seeds plants that produce naked seeds ...
Water is the solvent in solutions called acids ...
What two gases are the main components of air? ...
Anaerobic prokaryotes can live without what com...
What part of earth do many animals use for navi...
Endocytosis and exocytosis are types of vesicle...
What are biochemical compounds that living thin...
What happens to the volume of a balloon when yo...
The addition of starting materials and the remo...
In what year was the hardy-weinberg theorem for...
The regulation of gene expression is extremely ...
What does a virus inject into the host cell? nu...
Mutations in regulatory genes that normally con...
Blood is made up of red blood cells, white bloo...
What is the term for the study of how living th...
What takes place directly after developing a hy...
What should you use to protect your eyes from c...
Because action potentials are so brief, a neuro...
Darwin coined what term to refer to an organism...
At high pressures, how are the molecules of a g...
The number of possible isomers increases tremen...
What are vascular plants that produce seeds in ...
What does photosynthesis change light energy in...
Addiction affects what type of chemical recepto...
What is the ability of an atom to emit, or give...
What group of gases are unusually unreactive? n...
A point defect can be an atom missing from a si...
What is the place called where the axon of one ...
Organic chemistry is the study of the chemistry...
Gastropods, cephalopods, and bivalves are examp...
What type of cholesterol is commonly referred t...
Where does most natural gas come from? wells th...
Medical problems associated with the body respo...
The pancreatic hormones insulin and glucagon ma...
The marsupial embryo is nourished inside the ut...
The substances that comprise heterogeneous mixt...
What type of organism has spores that are sprea...
Through which organ do hookworm larvae enter th...
Inside a cylinder, thermal energy is converted ...
To the extent that behaviors are controlled by ...
What kind of muscle relationship generally prod...
Science is a process of knowing about the natur...
Through a process called electromagnetic induct...
Footprints, burrows, and waste are considered w...
What process of allows multicellular organisms ...
What is the process of a confined gas escaping ...
What is a relationship between living things th...
What is the measure of an individual’s weight-t...
When you are walking on a sidewalk, what occurs...
According to the english system measurement, ho...
Many important crops, such as corn, are planted...
The turbine of a windmill spins and creates wha...
Found in cord blood and other sources, what kin...
Which law explains why a ship weighing thousand...
The urinary system can be considered a smaller ...
Essential minerals that the body needs in tiny ...
The process by which leaves collect sunlight an...
What are the three types of rna involved in pro...
What is the term for chordates with a vertebral...
What does a keratometer measure in the cornea? ...
What is it called when an egg develops into an ...
Many adolescents experience frequent mood swing...
Through what does the nerve impulses travel to ...
The difference in electric potential energy whi...
The properties of the alkali metals are similar...
Which division of the peripheral nervous system...
An ether is an organic compound in which two hy...
Featuring a stalk-like filament that ends in an...
What controls the movements of hands and arms? ...
Refraction happens when light bends from doing ...
What is the basic structure that holds plants u...
The waves on the strings of musical instruments...
What is the name of the elongated bony structur...
What is the most numerous species on the planet...
What are the earth's two poles called? north an...
Chloroplasts and chromoplasts are examples of w...
Birds are the most numerous type of what verteb...
Viruses were assumed to exist before they were ...
Matter is always conserved in what type of reac...
Most flowers carry both stamens and carpels; ho...
The entry of food into the esophagus marks the ...
Where are the seeds in gymnosperms found? in cones
Oil is found in the porous rock layer and trapp...
The number of valence electrons determines vari...
Hydrogen and helium are specifically involved a...
What is the most widely used form of renewable ...
      What energy is the energy of motion? kinetic
Where do stratus clouds occur in the tropospher...
What kind of movement do planets in the solar s...
Which process breaks down glucose to extract en...
What does fluorine attract better than any othe...
What term is used to describe the muscular cana...
What type of energy travels through space as el...
What are subatomic particles of the nucleus cal...
What blood pressure reading measures the pressu...
What holds ionic and covalent compounds togethe...
Amines are bases; they react with acids to form...
If water from a spring can't flow downwards, it...
Energy is lost as heat between each trophic lev...
What are electrons in the outer energy level of...
Halogens tend to form salts with what type of e...
The voltage is measured using a voltmeter, whic...
What is the vertical extent of ocean water call...
Echinoderms are found in many different ocean e...
A convergent plate boundary is created when two...
When volcanoes erupt, what from the mantle is r...
Sepals, petals, pistils, and stamens are contai...
What do cells do in order to replace damaged or...
What kind of agriculture destroyed about 10% of...
Chloroplasts are the little green particles in ...
What is the largest organ of the human body? yo...
  What kind of charge does a proton have? positive
What are boggy regions with thick layers of pea...
What type of compounds make up the cells and ti...
Anything that has mass and takes up space is co...
What will you see if you look at a star through...
   Where is most digestion completed? the duodenum
Explosive eruptions associated with what can be...
What gland secretes its products directly into ...
The complete combustion of alkanes to carbon di...
What is the study of structure, properties, and...
Because several genes, each with more than one ...
A basidium is the fruiting body of a mushroompr...
Traditional classification of mammals are based...
The rest of the energy stored in glucose is los...
Water that is lost through the skin through eva...
What are the only innate behaviors in humans? r...
What occurs when a parent organism breaks into ...
What does the triploid cell develop into during...
The law of conservation of matter, which says t...
Which particle of an atom has a positive electr...
How is a reaction described when the given cond...
What does an electric field surround? a charged...
      Lack of what mineral causes rickets? calcium
What do we call the energy of motion? kinetic e...
Earthquakes and visible light are examples of w...
There is always a slightly negative pressure wi...
What property allows cut logs to float on water...
Different interatomic distances produce differe...
What organs filter blood and form urine? the ki...
A chain of what structures form as an oceanic p...
What is responsible for many properties of cova...
Tanning salons claim to use a “safe” form of wh...
Respiratory therapists or respiratory practitio...
Within each sporangium, hundreds of what kind o...
What delivers power to the chemical factory chl...
Which type of bryophytes are named for their ho...
What do you call a carnivore that eats mainly i...
Oxygen has the second highest electronegativity...
What component of cells is present in plant and...
Energy cannot be created or destroyed - it can ...
Most fungi can reproduce in which 2 ways? asexu...
What is a pair of valence electrons in a bonded...
When a metal is oxidized and a nonmetal is redu...
A biofilm is a colony of prokaryotes that is st...
What is the part of the flower that produces po...
What neutralizes the acidity of chyme and acts ...
What type of stress causes horizontal motions i...
The structure of the boeing 787 has been descri...
What is the term for the process in which two a...
In human beings, when a female becomes pregnant...
What has increased the greenhouse effect? human...
       How many pairs of chromosomes are there? 23
What structure passes oxygen and nutrients to a...
Light from a distant galaxy can travel differen...
What is the fruiting body that occurs after two...
What branch of science aims to understand all a...
Prokaryotes are successful because of the _____...
Where do benthos live in oceans? on the ocean f...
Hundreds of organelles called myofibrils, made ...
        What is the largest known virus? mimivirus
The temperature at which something melts is ref...
Solid bedrock vibrates less and therefore does ...
What branch of science is defined as the study ...
What are animals that live with tiny zooxanthel...
What usually causes fractures on a bone? excess...
What is the magnetic field traditionally referr...
What can ultimately result when species are int...
In humans, what is the first organ to form and ...
What is used to classify tornadoes? wind speed,...
What do you call materials that have high resis...
What term is used to describe the development o...
Cell walls, plastids, and a large central vacuo...
Snails, scallops, and squids are what type of i...
Humans create different breeds of organisms usi...
The word antibiotic comes from the greek anti, ...
What are sudden and dramatic losses of biodiver...
The ions in ionic compounds are arranged in rig...
Where was the distinction between total distanc...
What science is the study of the shape and arra...
What forms when a sperm fertilizes and egg? zygote
The field of organic chemistry studies the stru...
Where does growth in length occur, above the ro...
Asci are used by mycelia for what kind of repro...
What is the term used to describe the liquid th...
The density of bone is, in part, related to the...
What is the sum of the masses of the atoms in a...
Chloroplasts, leucoplasts and chromoplasts are ...
Salt in seawater causes it to have greater what...
What is the name of a long and low hill of sedi...
The temperature of the products is typically lo...
What is the most common type of cancer in adult...
Green plants known as producers provide basic f...
The lipids that are connected to the glucose pa...
What chemical reaction is the opposite of oxida...
What structure is a larger assembly of several ...
The punnett square shows the possible what, and...
Angiosperms produce their gametes in separate o...
What are the two types of charges? positive and...
What is the name for a change in a single nucle...
Ocean acidification results from the ocean abso...
What are organisms that feed on available plant...
What is the limiting factor for bacteria in a d...
Where are some of the greatest concentrations o...
    What do tadpoles clear out of waterways? algae
What theory says stresses build on both sides o...
      How many pairs of autosomes are there? three
What are the only living organisms that can mak...
The brain and spinal cord are part of what syst...
What are the highest clouds in the atmosphere? ...
What type of reproduction results in geneticall...
What is a disorder of glucose metabolism in whi...
Splitting of the nucleus of a radioactive atom ...
Colliding-beam accelerators create matter from ...
What is the term for the measure of the force o...
 Aging is associated with the death of what? cells
Animals that live in groups with other members ...
What are typically named for their major physic...
What type of vents are giant tube worms found a...
     What results when a force does work? movement
At the earth’s surface, the air pressure exerte...
What is a common condition caused by stomach ac...
      Where do the majority of species live? ocean
What process brings nutrients from the ocean's ...
Crests and troughs are the high and low points ...
What is the term for materials that have been l...
A penguin must do what before molting? increase...
The pelvic girdle, consisting of a hip bone, se...
Why does water have a high surface tension? hyd...
What are the two types of vascular tissues foun...
What are the two types of photoreceptors in the...
Forces which cause objects to turn around conti...
Why is a synthetic diamond not considered a min...
What type of plug is generally used on metal ap...
What term describes the ability of matter to co...
What occurs when waves interact with other wave...
What is defined in physics as the amount of for...
What do you call the heat below earth’s surface...
    How do most plants create food? photosynthesis
In a ketone, two of which kind of groups are at...
   Tapeworms are what type of flatworms? parasitic
In most crustaceans, what two structures fuse t...
What class of animal, including hydras and jell...
When iron and sulfur are mixed together in a ce...
What do many scientists think are the oldest eu...
Culprits in the common cold and aids, what infe...
What triangular feature is formed when a river ...
Professionals known as genetic counselors can h...
What type of fronts often bring sudden changes ...
Similarity in biochemicals, like the glucose us...
In type 2 diabetes, body cells do not respond t...
What fibres are seen in some vertebrates that t...
The cytoplasm divides during what process? cyto...
Where do birds store and moisten food that is w...
Where can you find humid subtropical climates? ...
What type of lenses can correct myopia? concave...
Photoautotrophs including (a) plants, (b) algae...
    Glaciers modify the landscape by what? erosion
The cells in the follicle undergo physical chan...
Scientists can use what tool to determine an ea...
             How many moons does pluto have? three
Huge calderas form when the mountain above an e...
What type of bonds are the attractive forces be...
Chemical elements and water are constantly recy...
What system is the spinal cord related to? nerv...
What is the total range of the energy from the ...
Plants have specialized organs that help them s...
The lungs of mammals are unique in having what?...
The organs of female mammals that that produce ...
What do you call the patterns and groups of sta...
Each enzyme has an optimal what at which its re...
What type of prokaryotes live in habitats witho...
What is the only metal that is liquid at room t...
What do animals store with the help of saturate...
 What are the dark areas of the moon called? maria
What do people use from aquifers from springs o...
What item lost by diffusion and in the urine ar...
What is the primary cause of air movement in th...
In cellular respiration, glucose is broken down...
The sum of the kinetic and potential energies o...
After what state is reached, the concentrations...
What type of reproduction is exemplified by sta...
What is the scientific term for stored energy a...
What kind of current flows in just one directio...
Most motions in nature follow ________ rather t...
An object's energy due to motion is known as? k...
While populations with unlimited resources grow...
         Group 16 is called what? the oxygen group
What type of temperatures increase the likeliho...
Fertilizer runoff can create what type of zones...
What kind of electricity can you generate with ...
At the time of birth, bones of the brain case a...
What are inorganic compounds that take the form...
The other ammonium ions are changed into nitrog...
What is typical weather for chicago in winter? ...
What works by providing a lower energy pathway ...
 What is the smallest part of a compound? molecule
What layer of skin is located right beneath the...
Some terrestrial species breathe through their ...
What is the main type of cell in the nervous sy...
Many ionic compounds occur as hydrates, compoun...
When blood vessels in the head dilate, what kin...
Acne and different types of cancer can affect w...
Prokaryotic cells can only regulate gene expres...
     Where do oceans absorb gases from? atmosphere
Engaging in relatively simple behaviors helps m...
Meningitis is an infection of the membranes tha...
What use enzymes to break down foreign matter a...
What is indicated by the ratio of the output fo...
Glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids are the ...
    What keeps the earth orbiting the sun? gravity
How do bees communicate to tell other bees wher...
Along with nerve tissue, what kind of tissue ar...
Metal detectors used for airport security work ...
Methanogens in their gut enable what process in...
The skeleton of lampreys is made of what? carti...
             How do amphibians reproduce? sexually
What are scientists called who study the weathe...
Autocrine signaling takes place within the same...
Both dna and rna are what type of acids? nuclei...
What kind of a resource is soil, for human purp...
A natural resource that is consumed or used up ...
An electrical motor changes electrical energy i...
What is name for a piece of collagen-rich skin ...
Young eutherians complete their embryonic devel...
Nuclear reactors use fission reactions to vapor...
What type of air do plants take in and use? car...
How long can a large star be on the main sequen...
What do you call the pattern of lines formed wh...
What is the term for a watertight seal between ...
What is at the surface of a cell, arranged in s...
Vitamins are organic compounds that are essenti...
In eukaryotic cells, what divides before the ce...
The joint that lies between the radius and the ...
Because it damages hair cells, what is the most...
What is regulated to ensure that the correct pr...
What mirrors diverge light rays and, thus, have...
During what stage are chromosomes condensed eno...
What is an odorless white solid that is harmles...
Melting, sublimation, and evaporation absorb wh...
What is the series of changes in the reproducti...
What is the average number of individuals per u...
What types of living beings have water vascular...
Which two gases make up the bulk of earth's atm...
What is the decayed remains of living organisms...
The motor thus acts as a generator whenever its...
Norovirus causes the inflammation of the stomac...
What forms when tectonic plates move above a ho...
What is the multicellular diploid stage called?...
   Myopia is commonly called what? nearsightedness
The prostate gland secretes a fluid that mixes ...
About 95 percent of lipids are absorbed in what...
What type of work called occurs when a system p...
In some parts of the world, too much of the sun...
What type of animal eats both plants and animal...
What is the term for the muscular duct through ...
What is the most common cause of cancer? cell m...
     The testes produce what hormone? testosterone
Capillaries are narrow-diameter tubes that can ...
Pieces of the cell break off and form a new cel...
            How do most reptiles produce? sexually
The minimum amount necessary for self-sustained...
What are genes that are close together on the s...
What do neutral atoms have the same number of? ...
Omnivores are animals that eat both plant- and?...
Bacterial dna is contained in a large, circular...
Which primate group generally lives alone? oran...
Carbon and what are the second and third most a...
Glucagon and insulin are produced in what organ...
Anagen, catagen and telogen are phases in the g...
What is the scientific term for the dropping of...
Sudden changes in geologic and climatic conditi...
What is the fluid that carries sperm through th...
      In what unit is frequency measured in? hertz
Mixtures of materials called alloys contain at ...
The challenge of techniques used for proteomic ...
What type of gas is delivered to homes to use f...
Chewing a bite of bread mixes it with what and ...
What is occurring at an alarming rate as a resu...
What triggers the fight-or-flight response? epi...
What is the term for the force applied to a whe...
Magnetic resonance imaging devices use what to ...
Water moving up the plane and evaporating from ...
How many bones fuse together to form the craniu...
What is the amount of moisture in the atmospher...
What heisenberg principle imposes ultimate limi...
Narrowing of the arterioles causes an increase ...
      What are double sugars called? disaccharides
Cells that undergo cell division continue to ha...
Which two basic parts of a plant develop tough ...
What is the name for a kind of animal that eats...
Oxygenated air, taken in during inhalation, dif...
What substances, which serve as catalysts, are ...
What is the type of plant called when its leave...
Besides the endocrine system, what other system...
What is the area where an electron is most like...
The part of the ecosystem required by a particu...
What is the wavelength of light expressed in? n...
What is found inside the pores of spongy bone? ...
The strength of an acid depends on how many of ...
How many oxygen ions make up an ozone molecule?...
While light travels at different speeds in diff...
What kind of solution might cause animal cells ...
Transition metals are superior conductors of he...
Our digestive system breaks down starch to what...
What happens to a tectonic plate when it subduc...
A monosaccharide is the simplest carbohydrate a...
What is the term for if multiple sperm fuse wit...
As air pressures inside and outside of the ear ...
       How many pairs of chromosomes are there? 23
Food is broken into smaller particles by mastic...
Cell communication that occurs over short dista...
Triggering a blink when something touches the s...
Vascular disorders involve problems with the fl...
In eukaryotes, mrna may be modified before leav...
Velocity affects what type of energy more than ...
   In which way do vertebrates reproduce? sexually
Neutrons and protons reside in which part of th...
What are the two best known baryons? protons an...
Mutation creates new genetic variation in what?...
What hormone controls milk production in mammar...
Cellular respiration brings hydrogen and oxygen...
What are the two components of the autonomic ne...
      Where do lancelets live? shallow ocean water
What is caused when circulating blood puts pres...
What is the most common bacterial sti in the u....
          In what unit is heat measured in? joules
In which type of cells are most organelles not ...
Which three colors are called the primary color...
Water dissolving minerals out of rocks makes oc...
Like the energy content in food, the energy exp...
What's the term for an allele that's always exp...
Series and parallel circuits are two basic type...
Transport of water and solutes in plants water ...
Three distinct layers or tunics form the walls ...
Groundwater does what to the rock beneath the g...
Technetium is named after the greektechnikos, m...
What is a galvanic process that can be prevente...
What are drumlins, eskers, and kettle lakes for...
What is the vector sum of all the torques actin...
An electric current flows in a path called what...
What gas can be generated by reacting sodium br...
What is a close relationship between two specie...
Over many generations, the resulting genetic di...
   What pulls skydivers towards the earth? gravity
What occurs when a gas passes through an openin...
What are the preserved remains of animals, plan...
What group of elements cannot conduct electrici...
What is the name of a tough, fibrous membrane w...
Bond lengths are intermediate between covalent ...
Under a microscope, salt crystals are what shap...
Where part of the atmosphere is the uppermost m...
In a heat map, what color represents the hottes...
All living things require what, which most ecos...
Kelvin is a temperature measure in which the lo...
The basic fabric of most biological membranes i...
What is the name for the organs behind the head...
What system gets less effective with age, that ...
Which type of tides are created when the sun an...
What is the process of creating an exact geneti...
An example of hydrolysis working within our bod...
What theory can explain virtually all the prope...
Serious imbalances, cancer and other diseases c...
Which organ's diseases include kidney stones, i...
What single-celled organism can be either a pre...
What layer, made of hot, solid rock, is beneath...
Some bacteria can contaminate food and cause wh...
The enzyme pepsin works only in the presence of...
What organisms known as decomposers break down ...
Both flukes and tapeworms are parasites with wh...
What is the transfer of information from rna to...
In science, anything that has mass and volume i...
Cells with different functions often differ in ...
Wich disorder arises when defective valves allo...
Ocean water has what property because water dis...
What term refers to patterns of stars seen from...
What gives the plant cell strength and protecti...
If pollination occurs, what does the zygote dev...
Hiv has proteins called what, internal to the e...
What are two basic types of pollutants in the a...
       How do humans learn behaviors? conditioning
Just about all life processes depend on what? w...
During labor, what do contractions of the muscu...
How is communication initiated and maintained w...
Dna replication is the first step in what proce...
The prostate is formed of both muscular and whi...
A mammal that reproduces by laying eggs is call...
Adaptations that go along with the active, carn...
What is considered to be the control center for...
What molecules with a nitrogen base are the bas...
   What were the first vertebrates to evolve? fish
What is defined as the rate of energy transferr...
The cochlea and vestibul make up what part of t...
An individual with the appropriate number of wh...
A, t, g, and c pairs are associated with what s...
What female flower structure, which is part of ...
What is used by sensitive systems to detect eve...
What is the leading cause of skin cancer? sunlight
                         What is cholera? bacteria
      Which element has atomic number 87? francium
What is the basic chemical building block of ma...
What do you call the lower layer of soil that i...
Modern taxonomy is based on many hypotheses' of...
What method plays a role in determining the app...
The study of energy and energy transfer involvi...
In a science lab, what device would you use to ...
Human blood has a buffering system to minimize ...
The unpaired ethmoid bone is located where with...
A statement is considered what if it is open to...
Name the physical phenomenon of the ocean that ...
What is the process by which large particles, s...
Budding is a form of what type of reproduction ...
Ocean water releases dissolved carbon dioxide i...
The physical sciences can be divided into physi...
What do you call trees that lose their leaves i...
In which organ of the body does gluconeogenesis...
What kind of structure contains the largest kno...
While enzymatic hydrolysis proceeds, peristalsi...
What is the most common type of muscle in the h...
The last two stages of aerobic respiration requ...
The rate of dissolving is influenced by surface...
What disease unique to humans and is caused by ...
What is the average kinetic energy of particles...
How can you prevent your ice cream from getting...
Plants can lose their leaves, flower, or break ...
What is the second highest mountain in the worl...
What are the two classifications of natural res...
Maintaining a high metabolic rate takes a lot o...
What is the photosynthesis factory of the plant...
The process that a plant increases in size is k...
What are reversible physical changes in matter ...
Compounds that form from two or more nonmetalli...
The ability to maintain a stable internal tempe...
What are substances that provide hydrogen ions ...
What are mercury manometers often used to measu...
What did rockets help launch into space during ...
What sound can be heard when sound waves bounce...
Robert merrifield developed the first synthetic...
Strangeness, charm, bottomness, and topness are...
What needs to happen to temperature to cause pr...
Australopithecus afarensis is an ancestor of wh...
Organs that produce eggs and secrete estrogen a...
What are the most common types of compounds fou...
       Which planet is closest to the sun? mercury
What do you call it when adult fish of the same...
What happens to the volume of a gas as the kelv...
If only one atom of a specific type is present ...
What are the earliest reptile genus named? hylo...
What produces all the cells of the root and the...
What is the master gland of the endocrine syste...
The earth’s biomes are categorized into two maj...
       What does the thymus gland produce? t cells
During which phase does dna replication occur i...
What kind of interactions do polar substances e...
Which process is glycolysis in during cellular ...
Saturated hydrocarbons are given the general na...
In the cellular process of transcription, dna c...
If a gyroscope is not spinning, it acquires ang...
Which leukocytes are first to respond to bacter...
What thin whip-like structures help prokaryotes...
What common process is used in the production o...
Comprising 10 percent of the mass of the brain,...
What is a segment of dna that carries a code fo...
Introduction of antigens into the body through ...
What part of the brain is largest in intelligen...
      What is the cause of most ocean waves? winds
What is the lowest layer of the atmosphere call...
What is the biggest group of animals on the pla...
The presence of solute particles blocks some of...
What are color and hardness physical properties...
         What are steroid hormones made of? lipids
How many processes contribute to the emergence ...
What type of scale is the richter scale? logari...
  Where is pedocal soil commonly found? grasslands
What are the key cells in the immune response? ...
Where are most chloroplasts found in plants? le...
What type of x-linked trait is color blindness?...
What do you call a condensation reaction in whi...
These types of cella support young, growing par...
What can be used to convert the energy provided...
Most plant cells have a large central what? vac...
When you heat a pot of water on a stove top, en...
Of all the mineral nutrients, what contributes ...
What do you call a reaction that consumes energ...
What type of rain dissolves and damages stone b...
What organ packages nutrients absorbed by the d...
What is defined as a push or pull acting on an ...
How much time does the moon take to complete on...
Like other amphibians, frogs generally lay thei...
What is the ratio of a wave frequency to its vi...
What is the hollow and muscular balloon-shaped ...
Sugars, starches, and cellulose are examples of...
During the embryonic stage of vertebrates, the ...
What category of joints is immovable? synarthrosis
 What do male cones in seed plants contain? pollen
What kind of harm does a corrosive substance ca...
Receptors for what chemical messengers recogniz...
A hydraulic jack that makes it possible to lift...
What process consists of the mechanisms that pr...
Prokaryotic cells have a cell wall located outs...
Multiplying the linear momentum of a spinning o...
What are responsible for removing excess h+ ion...
What makes up the dense outer layer of bones? c...
What refers to a substance made from two or mor...
Stress building up at the same rate over time a...
Materials made from non-living substances like ...
What type of gas levels in the atmosphere are i...
What is the earths crust composed of? igneuos rock
Cells that are divided by oncogenes contain dam...
When does exchange of dna segments happen betwe...
What are observable patterns of stars found in ...
If you were to filter out all the cells in bloo...
The simplest organic compounds have hydrogen an...
Temperature and what other environmental factor...
What glands are wedges of glandular and neuroen...
What is the force that pulls downward on an obj...
Which reproduction produces offspring genetical...
Water in its solid state is commonly known as w...
Besides the concentration of dissolve oxygen an...
Which type of membrane are ribosomes surrounded...
Which scientist was responsible for the theory ...
Soft cartilage gradually turns into hard bone t...
Glycerol is a triol, an alcohol which contains ...
The parts of the ears involved in balance are c...
The sun’s heat can also be trapped in your home...
Red blood cells do not perform aerobic respirat...
Late adulthood begins in the mid-60s and contin...
The concentration of a substance is the quantit...
What is the study of rock strata called? strati...
What is the particular sequence of amino acids ...
Stones, infections, and diabetes threaten the h...
What is the name of the outer layer of skin? th...
What is the major source of water vapor in the ...
The release of mature eggs that occurs at the m...
What are the three ways to control the transcri...
Peroxisomes carry out oxidation reactions that ...
The magnitude of the momentum vector is the pro...
Hydrostatic skeletons are well suited for life ...
How do prokaryotic organisms reproduce asexuall...
Many species use their body shape and coloratio...
What property of ocean water increases rapidly ...
Remember electrons are negatively charged, so i...
What type of starch is used for long-term energ...
What contracts to move food throughout the gast...
A magnet can exert force on objects without tou...
What field of science seeks to explain how trai...
Saturated hydrocarbons get their name because t...
What is the name of the black opening in the ey...
Enzymes in saliva help bread down and digest wh...
What comes first in the life cycle of a plant? ...
Within the chloroplast, synthesis of what takes...
When referring to genes, what term describes th...
What are intervertebral discs made of? fibrocar...
What harmful light does ozone reduce in the upp...
What device detects and measuresee earthquake w...
While some climate regions have multiple layers...
Some plants open their leaves during the day to...
What secretion initiates chemical digestion whi...
What makes echinoderms force water into the fee...
Red blood cells, white blood cells, and platele...
Fine-grained mud in the deep ocean comes from s...
Pseudopods are temporary extensions of what? th...
Ice cubes in cola cause the cola to lose what? ...
How are protists traditionally classified? anim...
Coal is a solid hydrocarbon formed from what ty...
Many disciplines within the study of biology co...
A flow of one coulomb per second is called one ...
What might eventually happen to a species if it...
        What do muscles need to contract? stimulus
What is considered to be a unique feature of ec...
Noninfectious diseases can't be passed from one...
What 'counting' instrument is used to measure r...
Often primary producers, what term describes sp...
Hurricanes that form in the tropics are called ...
What types of flat maps show users changes in l...
Sister chromatids separate as part of anaphase ...
Vertebrates evolved from primitive forms of whi...
   Another name for table salt is? sodium chloride
In iceland, the mid-atlantic ridge is above sea...
The earth's atmosphere, climate, and living thi...
What is the nest of cell an egg rests in called...
The energy of a wave depends on time as well as...
Genetic equilibrium occurs when what process do...
During meiosis, each parent synthesizes gametes...
What is evolution that occurs over a long perio...
What is the plasma membrane formed by? a phosph...
What is formed when an element gains one or mor...
What is the term for the slow wearing down of r...
  Lobsters are what kind of food source? arthropod
Helicopters store large amounts of rotational e...
What branch of science is the study of matter a...
Plants and algae maintain the atmosphere. durin...
Electric substations have what devices, which u...
By what process does oxygen enter the pores of ...
The iconic gray mantle of the human brain, whic...
What kind of rocks form as an existing rock is ...
What kind of water are cattails adapted for wit...
What is the most abundant living thing on earth...
Oxidation does not necessarily require heating....
Toward the late stages of pregnancy, a drop in ...
Light bends when it passes in from what to what...
Photosynthesis uses solar energy, carbon dioxid...
   What is the basic unit of computer memory? byte
What is the first part of the large intestine, ...
Burning fossil fuels produces air pollution and...
Monosaccharides, particularly glucose, are majo...
Covalent solids are formed by networks or chain...
In response to high blood osmolarity, which can...
The grasp reflex in humans is an example of wha...
Antibiotics can cure most infections that are c...
Hydrocarbons are made up of carbon and what els...
Archaeal cell walls contain a variety of polysa...
What are lipids' function in relation to nerves...
What's the name for the point reached at a ph o...
Crystallization separates mixtures based on dif...
Pure substances have a constant composition and...
Which water from the equator mixes with cold wa...
In order to determine its molecular formula, it...
What is the term for much bigger evolutionary c...
What are the effects of light on plant morpholo...
In a magnet, what are the regions called that a...
What kind of muscle cells undergo twitch-type c...
What is a factor in determining weight but not ...
What occurs when two nonpolar liquids are mixed...
Although much of the heart's basic structure is...
Because sound waves must move through a medium,...
Bicarbonate is the second most abundant anion i...
What process involves two cell divisions and pr...
What happens to a chain of amino acids after it...
How many electrons can be accommodated in the f...
Species distributions are a consequence of both...
What is the name of the mineral that contains c...
What medical emergency occurs when a blood clot...
What are the strongest magnets made? electromag...
What vessels supply blood to the myocardium and...
An endocrine disease usually involves the secre...
What is it called when a gene at one location (...
Called the powerhouses of the cell, what organe...
What is the name of the major sex hormone in fe...
 What is the smallest unit of a living thing? cell
What kind of metals have perplexing patterns of...
The fact that water in a reservoir is elevated ...
Rich in protein and nutrients, what abundant gr...
In contrast to metals, electrical insulators ar...
What model postulates that electrons orbit the ...
In the case of the wheelbarrow, the output forc...
What type of electrons are attracted to the pos...
Present-day plants that have a complex vascular...
What tool, used to locate underwater objects, u...
What kind of competition often leads to extinct...
A nephrologist studies and deals with diseases ...
Where is the potential energy of a river the hi...
What are the most numerous and diverse biochemi...
         Where are most plants firmly rooted? soil
What type of rain dissolves limestone and marbl...
What are materials that have a low resistance t...
What mammalian feature serves functions such as...
Higher pressures increase the solubility of wha...
What is an important level of organization in e...
When hot water gently rises to the surface, it ...
What is the final stage of aerobic respiration,...
What state of matter has a definite volume, but...
Blood leaves the left ventricle via the what? a...
What type of animal can be found on every conti...
Though viruses are not considered living, they ...
    What is our sun's next stage called? red giant
What type of molecule is carbon dioxide (co2)? ...
Trimethylamine is one of the substances respons...
Making ultrasonic clicks is a clever way that s...
What do plants respond to in their environment?...
Bone marrow is found inside many bones and prod...
One species benefits while the host species is ...
What is a compound in which all of the atoms ar...
What kind of lakes form when volcanic eruptions...
The ovaries produce estradiol and progesterone,...
Ions move through what to maintain electrical n...
What are the messenger molecules of the endocri...
What do you call any substance that opposes coa...
What controls every aspect of plant growth and ...
Making a specific prediction based on a general...
Ripe fruits are usually red, orange, yellow, or...
What are the lines of force in the electric fie...
An electric transformer connects two circuits w...
What structure connects the pharynx to the trac...
The resultant solution will contain the same am...
The thin scale-like or flat shape of what cells...
During what phase of breathing does the pressur...
What type of climates is malaria commonly found...
Plants that live in the desert are called? xero...
          Dolphins are what type of animal? mammal
What is the energy of moving matter? kinetic en...
The two parts of photosynthesis photosynthesis ...
In an atom, what two major types of particles a...
What is the first part of the large intestine, ...
Each pollen grain has two coverings: the exine ...
In stars like our sun, hydrogen atoms join toge...
         How do bacteria reproduce? binary fission
What sort of gas is found in balloons and blimp...
                        What color is pyrite? gold
Planting a row of trees around a field or erect...
What structure connects the fetus to the placen...
Glass, rubber, and plastics are examples of whi...
What is the process bacteria use to break down ...
A fully developed placenta is made up of a larg...
What is an element that tend to be malleable? m...
As a diver descends, the increase in pressure c...
Many deleterious alleles have such severe effec...
What kind of reaction, in general, keeps stars ...
What is the most important factor determining s...
What are the structural and functional units of...
What structure, containing many internal membra...
During the day, what type of energy is transfer...
Which nerve carries electrical signals from the...
What is the only thing that can change an aster...
Radon is inert and generally unreactive because...
What are the two ways animals can manage their ...
What may the jointed appendages of arthropods b...
A sperm cell and an egg cell fuse to become wha...
The muscles in arteries and veins that are larg...
An inversion may result when what kind of mass ...
The eardrum is part of what part of the ear? outer
 What is never lost and just changes forms? energy
What is the term for a mixture that varies in i...
What are the "building blocks" of proteins? ami...
What is responsible for our sense of balance? o...
What technology do scientists use to create mod...
What essential molecules can be harmful if inge...
What are two ways cnidarians are able to reprod...
In what human organ system would you find live ...
  What carries blood away from the heart? arteries
What is the most important characteristic of a ...
The domain geometry for a molecule with four el...
What is the gel-like material between the cell ...
Like mammals and birds, and unlike other reptil...
What is the phenomenon in which light and sound...
What is the name of the relatively large gland ...
Amplification that occurs in which cells often ...
As adults, amphibians are completely _______, m...
Approximately how many billion years ago did ou...
A type of what organism causes ergot, a disease...
Plant-like protists are commonly called what? a...
Which cell gives rise to all cells of the human...
What term describes the long tube that connects...
In some ways, a collection of gas molecules rep...
Are vesicles larger or smaller than vacuoles? s...
The duodenum is the first and the shortest part...
Which system consists of all the bones of the b...
    What is rusting an example of? chemical change
What molecule consists of two atoms of hydrogen...
All compounds, whether ionic or covalent, must ...
Which is the most common sti (sexually transmit...
What do all chemical reactions need to get star...
What organ does asthma periodically cause to na...
Silver, gold, and copper all conduct what very ...
Pakicetus and rodhocetus are considered to be a...
Chemical and physical changes in a system may b...
What is the only way to completely avoid stis? ...
What is an ion that is in common to both salts ...
Prokaryotes and the nitrogen cycle nitrogen is ...
What property is a measure of the average kinet...
A measure of the disorder of a system is called...
What influence does the horizontal motion of a ...
Larger animals expend more of what to achieve l...
Subshells are subdivisions of what groupings of...
The number of moles of solute in 1 kg of solven...
What is the name for the pores in leaves that a...
What is part of a cycle that holds an element o...
What theory states that all organisms are made ...
What does rearrangements of chromosomes contrib...
In the universe as a whole, what is the most co...
What are substances that cannot be broken down ...
What gas, that is dissolved in solution, is use...
Fluoride ion is widely used in water supplies t...
Amino acids are joined together to form a chain...
What is the name of the science that studies ma...
Which process changes rocks by heat and pressur...
What is defined as an antigen that causes an al...
What can be linked together to form disaccharid...
What were the first living things to evolve on ...
All members of a species living together form a...
What type of disturbance do even dominant plant...
What type of behaviors are triggered by pheromo...
     What do organisms use to store energy? lipids
The scientific practice of classifying organism...
What is the type of cell division that produces...
  The force applied to an object is called? stress
What is the largest mineral group, comprising o...
Sound navigation and ranging is an acronym for ...
What is the term for the difference in elevatio...
The same reaction regenerates pyruvate, which i...
What large carboxylic acid with three ionizable...
How does sap get to the tops of tall trees? thr...
Each megasporangium has a single functional one...
Somatosensation refers to what of the five sens...
Respiratory distress syndrome results from insu...
Redox reactions can always be recognized by a c...
In humans, the anus is attached to what kind of...
What does interspecific competition between spe...
Radioactive decay can give off energy and what ...
What is the condition in which distant objects ...
What novelties can also arise when structures t...
What is a gap in rock layers called? an unconfo...
Bacteria are often used to make cheese from wha...
Why are atoms of metals good conductors of elec...
What is the basic unit of an organism called? cell
All the blood in the human body is filtered abo...
What happens to the energy levels of electrons ...
What is the term for the blockage of an artery ...
In what type of reproduction do parents of diff...
Insulin and glucagon help keep blood glucose le...
What phenomenon has severe consequences on both...
    What alloy is made from copper and zinc? brass
The accumulation of what cells begin the develo...
What are terrestrial biomes determined by? temp...
What protects reptiles from injury and loss of ...
What are the different feeding positions in a f...
What is the joint where the pelvic girdle and l...
Snails, scallops, and squids are examples of in...
Synthesis, decomposition, replacement, and comb...
What are the devices placed in electric circuit...
What is the hinged structure attached to the cr...
The svedberg unit is a measure of the rate of w...
Muscles and skin are examples of what, consisti...
When do cells acquire different identities in a...
What structures sweep laterally, hugging the pe...
What was the last supercontinent on earth? pangaea
When conditions deteriorate, hydras can reprodu...
Because collisions are ______, energy can be tr...
What is the tendency of an object to remain at ...
The pituitary gland is called the “master gland...
What links together to form long polymeric chai...
  What type of electrons does carbon have? valence
What do doctors call farsightedness or the inab...
What type of simple inheritance is too simplifi...
The sun emits energy in the form of what? elect...
The number of electrons in the outer energy lev...
            Acids are the opposites of what? bases
What is the process in which gases are exchange...
Steam consists of what common and essential ele...
The capsid is made from the what that are encod...
Methane, ethane, and propane are three of the s...
The number of neutrons and electrons may vary o...
In biological augmentation, ecologists use what...
What kind of interference is observed when the ...
What are mudskipper fish able to do in short di...
What is the major cause of disease in agricultu...
What type of reproduction occurs in almost all ...
What protists absorb food molecules across thei...
               How do dogs lose body heat? panting
The electron transport chains are located on th...
What happens to growth of plants and bacteria i...
Electromagnetic waves are generally caused by m...
Exposure to what can increase the amount of pig...
Most of the trash in the ocean is made of what ...
What is the name of the glands that produce mil...
The conductive cells within the heart establish...
What is the opening in the front of the eye? th...
Binary transition-metal compounds, such as the ...
What disease refers to the dangerous buildup of...
Which nerve directly stimulates the contraction...
What do we call coiled structures made of dna a...
Energy comes in discrete packages called what? ...
Which type of cell can carry out more functions...
When vascular disease causes stiffening of arte...
Animals that do not have internal control of th...
What do optical fibres look like? thin glass tubes
Genetics is the branch of biology that focuses ...
What type of protein is a protein molecule that...
What is defined as the ability to cause changes...
What group of animals has permeable skin that m...
A period is a horizontal row of the what? perio...
What term refers to any method of removing carb...
What system protects the body from worms, germs...
Most members of the animal kingdom have differe...
Which ancient fish has just two living species ...
A decline in blood flow to what organs stimulat...
What common air pollutant is characterized by i...
In addition to a nucleus what do eukaryotic cel...
What term is used to describe a cross between t...
What also happens when people feel anxious and ...
Which two systems together provide support to t...
The chromosomes that have a mixture of maternal...
Different types of home heating systems all fun...
Nutrients the body needs in relatively large am...
Which property changes when a glass breaks? its...
What do you call large, y-shaped proteins that ...
What is the process by which plants make their ...
In amniotes that lay eggs, the shell of the egg...
What term is used to describe viruses that live...
What is the main component of phytoplankton? algae
Compounds that contain mainly the elements carb...
What type of diagnosis happens before a baby is...
Unlike nuclear fission, which involves dangerou...
What is another environmental benefit of conser...
The bright color of poison dart frogs serves wh...
What consist of chains of small molecules calle...
Atmospheric pressure can be measured with what ...
   What kind of charge do electrons have? negative
What are lipids that contain phosphorus called?...
How many chambers does the stomach of a ruminan...
What states that chemical reactions occur when ...
Biological macromolecules are organic, which me...
What do you call the membrane lining the back o...
Lacking blood vessels, nerve endings, or glands...
The deepest region of the adrenal cortex is the...
All living things maintain a stable internal en...
Tropical rainforests are an example of a climat...
What changes the chemical composition of a subs...
What term is used to describe the way that anim...
What kind of bees are most adult bees in a hive...
In most animals, the circulatory system is used...
In sexually reproducing organisms, parents pass...
At transform plate boundaries, two plates move ...
The voltages generated at a power plant are ste...
What is the term for the dark brown or black co...
What two ways may catalyst be classified? homog...
What phylum has the highest number of species o...
The speed of a wave is a product of its wavelen...
   What type of gas are stars made up of? hydrogen
What are one of the most abundant organic molec...
A geiger counter is used for detecting what? ra...
All species have evolved a pattern of living, c...
What are the most diverse plants on earth? angi...
What is the second line of defense? inflammator...
What is the term for when organisms need other ...
What is an organic compound that is made up of ...
Bile salts produced by the liver assist in brea...
Where does most of the sound we hear travel thr...
A reptile's what doesn't generate enough energy...
Bar, circle, and line are examples of what kind...
      What is the first phase of mitosis? prophase
What term means an area where two closely relat...
Fungi may have both asexual and sexual stages o...
Geysers erupt because what boiling hot substanc...
About one-third of the human cerebral cortex is...
Fungus-like protists are what kind of feeders? ...
What is the process in which many new species e...
After fertilization, how many cells does a zygo...
Which common oxidizing agent can be used to oxi...
What are gemstones known as when light cannot p...
In biology, a relationship that benefits both e...
Some animals prepare for the long winters by st...
Biochemical reactions are optimal at physiologi...
What is the attachment of ducklings to their mo...
All chordates are deuterostomes possessing a wh...
In vascular plants, the sporophyte generation i...
The combined gradient that affects an ion inclu...
  What is the first cell of a new organism? zygote
What part of the cell in plants and algae does ...
Exemplified by canada and alaska, what kind of ...
What are the only organelles that prokaryotic c...
What is the name of the cloud where most long-p...
Different feeding "positions" in a food chain o...
Ionic compound atoms of various elements gain o...
Sedimentary rocks form in what kind of layers? ...
Plants obtain the molecules for cellular functi...
The group of plants that can make their own foo...
What type of disorders are caused by mutations ...
What is the measure of sound intensity levels? ...
What is the temperature at which a substance fr...
Blood from what organs enters the left atrium o...
The farther an area is from the equator, what h...
What sort of issues can be determined by lookin...
The lunar landscape is covered by craters cause...
What is the name for the line dividing the eart...
Dependent on the frequency of sound waves, what...
Solar cells convert the energy in sunlight to w...
What occurs when a parent cell splits into two ...
A group of individuals that consists of genetic...
What is the most dangerous type of radiation? g...
What is the result when two monosaccharides are...
What are the two major atmospheric gases? nitro...
What do you call the strands of dna wrapped aro...
Land could not be colonized by other organisms ...
What are bacteria that stain purple are called?...
When the bud is fully developed, it breaks away...
Arrows and cannon balls are examples of objects...
What is the sugar that the cells of living thin...
What is the most important muscle involved in t...
What is the basic characteristic of monoprotic ...
What do we call a device used to store electric...
Has this ever happened to you? you walk across ...
        What planet is closest to our sun? mercury
The ordovician-silurian extinction event is the...
A small molecule that binds to a larger molecul...
What process that begins in utero during fetal ...
What traits are those that are inherited unchan...
What is required to break down and build up mol...
The three main rock types are igneous, metamorp...
    What body part does encephalitis attack? brain
What type of reproduction takes place when an a...
      Winds moving air masses causes what? weather
How many orders of magnitudes bigger is the ele...
What is the term for any way that an animal int...
A mushroom is only a specialised reproductive p...
Most oxygen in blood is bound to a protein call...
What do we call the only light that people can ...
Carnivores are animals that eat other animals. ...
What term describes the sequential appearance a...
What can water's high surface tension be attrib...
What supports life, and is also needed for the ...
The zoospores develop into haploid, multicellul...
Reducing the number of molecules in a rigid con...
What causes a lot of geological activity on the...
The fuel that burns in a combustion reaction in...
What describes a combination of two or more sub...
Sodium-potassium pumps help nerve cells establi...
Tin is oxidized at the anode, while silver ion ...
Adding a solute does what to the boiling point ...
Illnesses caused by bacteria in food are common...
Most bacteria may be placed into one of three g...
More uv rays reach the ground due to a decrease...
Two species that share what cannot coexist in a...
In a wheel and axle, when force is applied eith...
What can be used to determine the mass of a qua...
The thick skin, found only on the palms of the ...
What effect does tamiflu have on viruses and ce...
What is the main ingredient of mothballs? hydro...
What is the column of hot rock that continuousl...
What color light is actually the absence of ele...
What type of seeds come from plants that were t...
What is the organic material that comes from pl...
What is the simplest form of matter that has a ...
At least 20 percent of the world’s people do no...
What simple machine consists of two connected r...
Birds have air sacs that store inhaled air and ...
What is in the soil that causes mars to look re...
Convection generally involves the transfer of w...
What is the term for a push or a pull on an obj...
What term is used to describe the process of re...
Which disease occurs when there is not enough h...
In what state of matter are particles rigidly f...
What is a network solid and consists of carbon ...
Linnaeus developed binomial nomenclature, which...
What do we call the mathematical field of study...
Where do skeletal muscles usually attach? end o...
What do the cells in the front of a volvox typi...
What bodily system handles taking in oxygen, ge...
The atom often (but not always) turns into a di...
Females are not influenced by the male sex horm...
Pressure relationships inspiration (or inhalati...
Female monotremes share what external opening w...
Collisions between hydrogen atoms demonstrate o...
Fluid-filled thylakoids are the site of glucose...
What are the basic units of structure and funct...
What concept can be applied to biology, because...
Is sweat an exocrine or endocrine substance? ex...
Nuclei with even numbers of protons, neutrons, ...
Some prokaryotes form spores for survival calle...
What is the liquid inside the central vacuole c...
Cancer cells take up glucose for what reason? e...
Birds and insects perform what function for flo...
Most carcinogens produce mutations in genes tha...
What type of equations allows calculation of th...
Each new horizontal row of the periodic table c...
What kind of energy is specifically defined as ...
Only a small percent of earth's water is what t...
The kidneys work with the urinary system to rem...
What is asexual reproduction in which an egg de...
What does water vapor in the atmosphere cool an...
Carbon-14 dating is a method of what kind of da...
Friendly bacteria live mostly in the large inte...
The addition of heat changes liquid water to wh...
What is the most widely accepted theory explain...
Power in electricity is the voltage multiplied ...
What are the vertical columns of similar chemic...
What forms the changing shapes of sand dunes? wind
What is the process in which one cell divides t...
What reaction is considered the reverse of phot...
What are composed of an oxygen atom that forms ...
       Where do cells come from? preexisting cells
What are the female gametes that form in the ov...
What are plants in the diploid generation calle...
Through what do moving particles transfer therm...
What is the name for the water-splitting step o...
The entropy change is positive as the solid sta...
The process when heat is released is referred t...
What is a large space that helps the organism d...
 An infection of the brain is called? encephalitis
The converging of continental plates can form w...
Mammals generally lack a cloaca and have a sepa...
Chordates are defined by a set of four characte...
What is produced during the light reactions in ...
Nerves of the hands, arms, feet, legs, and trun...
Generally, momentum implies a tendency to conti...
Which types of muscles cause bones to move when...
Which is the final step of cell division? cytok...
What are xylem and phloem responsible for trans...
What kind of cell is a cell with two chromosome...
Which term literally means 'spore in a vessel'?...
Human culture is related to evolutionary theory...
Which forces hold particles together in more or...
What is the movement of muscle in the digestive...
Smoking increases the risk of cancer from what ...
What is the main function of the cardiovascular...
When something is described as "hydrophilic", y...
What human traits are controlled by more than o...
Most chromosomal disorders involve which chromo...
Carbonic anhydrase plays what role to achieve a...
What is it called when minerals replace the org...
Smaller sized galaxies are known as what? dwarf...
What is the name of the supportive structed tha...
What type of transport occurs when substances c...
A mold is an imprint of an organism left in wha...
Particles of different densities exert differen...
Plants generally transport carbohydrates from l...
Monocots and eudicots differ in what type of a ...
What kind of reproduction, in general, relies o...
A lens of what shape causes rays of light to di...
What is the complex network of nervous tissue t...
Crowding and resource limitation can have a pro...
X and y are the labels of what specialized huma...
Isotopes are named for their number of ______ p...
Because fungi feed on decaying and dead matter,...
If the temperature of a gas sample is decreased...
Most food chains and webs have a maximum of how...
What refers to the development and nourishment ...
       What kind of anaerobe is yeast? facultative
Bones are far from static, or unchanging. inste...
After entering the circulation, approximately o...
What causes a small scrap of paper placed on to...
What is the term for a structure composed of mo...
What is the pair of bean-shaped organs situated...
What part of a bird is adapted for the food it ...
What is the inner cell mass formed by the cells...
What does the distribution of darts on a dartbo...
What gas do the lungs give up as they take in o...
What is the term for the last stage of life bef...
Breaking of weak bonds, which tend to form betw...
What two organs secrete fluids that aid in dige...
When light meets matter, it may be reflected, t...
When a sperm penetrates the egg, it triggers th...
What chromosome determines the sex of an organi...
In contrast to precision, this term means how c...
Where is most of the cell's dna contained? nucleus
The four major classes of biological macromolec...
What protects you from pathogens and keeps you ...
Although they differ vastly in hardness, pencil...
The majority of salamanders lack what organs, s...
Crabs, lobsters, shrimp, krill, and woodlice ar...
What makes water change to a different state? t...
What is a hydrocarbon in which there are only s...
What is the measure of the amount of space occu...
The energy that enters the chloroplasts as sunl...
Whose rules are too simple to explain the inher...
The fertilized egg that sexually reproducing or...
People with red hair usually have what type of ...
   What provides the shape of a cell? cytoskeleton
Competition between members of the same species...
One molecule of carbon dioxide consists of 1 at...
What facilitates the diffusion of ions across a...
What kind of fibers are used to transport telep...
 In what century was the microscope invented? 17th
What do the hair cells in the cochlea release w...
Receptor clustering happens when what binds to ...
 What makes toenails and fingernails hard? keratin
Producing sperm and secreting testosterone are ...
Biochemistry is the study of the chemistry of? ...
Color, temperature, and solubility are examples...
What is the term for nutrients the body needs i...
What do corals secrete that builds up to become...
Solid balls of water and dust falling from the ...
What brain structure is important in recognizin...
Oils are liquid lipids that plants use for stor...
 Where do the majority of arthropods live? on land
Protein chains containing 10 or fewer amino aci...
The primary site of carbohydrate digestion is i...
A potential cause of extinction, competition be...
Within the microsporangium, the microspore moth...
What is regulated by the reticular formation? w...
All living things are capable of what process w...
What is the common name of mixtures of hydrocar...
What branch of science is the study of the univ...
Which blood leaves the placenta through veins l...
Matter can be classified on the basis of how wh...
What scale is used to succinctly communicate th...
Hormones often regulate what through antagonist...
The potential of what can be used to measure th...
What theory says atoms of matter are in constan...
The laws of what field of science apply to gala...
What makes soil and rock particles move gradual...
What is the protist kingdom sometimes called as...
The constant "c" can be specifically used to re...
What are non-renewable sources of energy that p...
What causes cancer cells to avoid elimination a...
Electronegativity is a qualitative measure of h...
Depending on how matter interacts with light, i...
Kidneys, large intestine, liver, skin, and lung...
What group of single-celled organisms lacking a...
Diamond, graphite and fullerene are examples of...
A hot-water heating system uses what type of en...
What captures carbon dioxide as it is emitted b...
What type of oil is being explored to replace p...
What advantage equals the distance of effort di...
What is the outer layer of skin, consisting alm...
What is the accumulated total of all the bioche...
When fertilizer ends up in bodies of water, the...
What part of the cell controls what enters and ...
Where does the development of a fetus take plac...
What is the critical factor for the survival of...
During sexual arousal what does the clitoris, v...
 What is another term for joules per second? watts
What is extracted from rock by heap leaching, f...
What tool is useful for studying the ocean floo...
What is the functional unit of the kidney which...
Name two candidates for the original sources of...
What do you call a substance that is not an aci...
An amide bond joining two amino acid units is c...
What is the name for spherical groups of old st...
What type of state do most fungi spend their li...
What is the white solid that forms on corroded ...
What does the decomposition of dead organisms a...
In which process do two light nuclei combine to...
What results from the consumption of pathogenic...
What type of physical properties of a substance...
A wave that consists of vibrating electric and ...
Both endocytosis and ______ are active transpor...
What type of roads and parking lots prevent rai...
What type of acid is often used as a preservati...
Vascular plants evolved what basic structures t...
The entropy is decreasing because a gas is beco...
Sucrose does not undergo reactions that are typ...
An electric stove changes electric current to w...
Mammals are endothermic vertebrates that have f...
Which group of metals in the periodic table inc...
What is the term for force that opposes motion ...
        Most animals are in which clade? bilateria
What system carries nerve impulses to internal ...
What are invertebrate chordates that retain all...
What has traditionally been defined as a force ...
What members of an ecosystem food chain take in...
What are small organelles and are the site of p...
Lungs, pharynx, larynx, trachea, and bronchi ar...
What is necessary for growth and energy? nutrients
Bryophyta is the formal taxonomic name for the ...
In humans, how many chromosomes does each somat...
Like mitochondria, plastids contain their own w...
Terrestrial and aquatic are the two basic categ...
When dissolved in water, what do strong acids t...
On the atomic level, the dissolution of an ioni...
  What is one method to observe nebulae? telescope
When alternating primary current passes through...
What state of matter exists if particles do not...
What is the“packet” of energy called that the n...
The movement of molten metal in earth's outer c...
Mechanical churning of food in what organ serve...
A constant and plentiful supply of oxygen is re...
Organisms interact with each other and what els...
What is the center of an earthquake called? the...
Calvin cycle reactions can be organized into th...
What type of cells are arranged into tightly pa...
How are the number of moles of carbon dioxide g...
What is the name of the blood protein that carr...
The sun and many other light sources produce wa...
Each vertebral vein also flows into which vein?...
Almost all plants make food through what proces...
What did darwin call the evolutionary concept o...
Surprisingly, where would you find the earth’s ...
The part of the shadow in which light is comple...
What is the name of the period of transition be...
The formula unit of sodium chloride dissociates...
Fibrous root systems have many small branching ...
A system of glands secretes what chemical messe...
In eukaryotic cells, molecules such as enzymes ...
What does the stable form of sulfur at room tem...
What term means the amount of a substance requi...
What bone forms the upper jaw and supports the ...
What does increasing a solute's temperature do?...
What are the pyramid-shaped, paired organs that...
The global biosphere includes all areas of what...
Atomic orbitals from different atoms overlap to...
Particulates cause lung diseases. they can also...
What reinforces the thin walls of the right ven...
What kind of radiation is observed in honeycree...
What do we call the worldwide radio-navigation ...
What substance can be eroded by wind or water? ...
What unit of the nervous system consists of a c...
What are small planets in our solar system call...
What is electrons in the highest occupied princ...
Pacemaker cells stimulate the spontaneous contr...
A mineral’s crystal shape is determined by the ...
Unlike prokaryotes, eukaryotes have a what? cel...
What term is used to describe major changes in ...
What type of rocks form when sediments are comp...
Processes in which matter changes between liqui...
Abrasion is a process of what type of weatherin...
Mendel’s observation of pea plants also include...
The skull consists of cranial bones and what ot...
   Insects are arthropods in which class? hexapoda
What is the tail bone an example of? vestigial ...
What is the intersection point of the critical ...
Nuclear power plants produce electricity throug...
When the body goes into survival mode, it's fir...
What do we consider the basic building blocks o...
Which law describes the angle at which the refl...
What major pigment in the photosynthetic system...
If heat is released by the system into the surr...
A hydrostatic skeleton is a skeleton formed by ...
Sharks are an example of an animal with sharp v...
What performance-enhancing drugs are synthetic ...
What bonds cause water to have a high boiling p...
Each root is made of dermal, ground, and what t...
What is the measure of the change in velocity o...
What is the name for medical doctors that speci...
Any place at which two bones are joined is call...
In mammals, hair or fur help conserve bodily wh...
Echinoderms are marine organisms that make up w...
What kind of membrane do prokaryotic cells have...
What is the name of the cell that results when ...
What makes a complete orbit around the earth on...
What general property of an earthquake is used ...
     What is a three dimensional snycline? a basin
Rather than being dead, dry, and brittle, what ...
The entire range of light that can be seen by t...
An endocrine disease usually involves the secre...
What are the four well-known states of matter? ...
What is the term for plants that produce flower...
Why did people stop adding lead to gasoline? en...
Osseous tissue is the tissue that makes up what...
What is the initial stage of scienetific invest...
The radiation exposure is determined by the num...
What is the smallest class of elements? metalloids
What is friction that acts on objects that are ...
The sun’s gravity is relatively strong because ...
What do aquatic arthropods use to exchange gase...
How many groups of leaves does poison ivy typic...
This knocks electrons from atoms and turns them...
What do you call an incomplete outer shell of a...
What are the specialized cells of sponges calle...
What organ system is comprised of your heart, b...
What type of cells capture light energy, and us...
When drinking water is treated, what is the ter...
        What does the urea cycle process? nitrogen
When using a microscope we do not see the entir...
Sickle cell diseas is caused by what? receccisv...
What are the most successful organisms on earth...
The temperature of an object is a measure of wh...
The chromosomal theory of inheritance proposed ...
What process occurs around day 14 of a 28-day m...
What term refers to a change in species over ti...
The nitrogen cycle moves nitrogen back and fort...
Eutrophication, or high levels of nutrients, ca...
What ancestors did caecillians evolve from? tet...
The surfaces of the bones at the joints are cov...
The infection-fighting complement system consis...
In how many ways ca a living organism obtain ch...
What stage in human males lasts from about ages...
Elasticity is the ability of a material to retu...
Many parasites have complex life cycles involvi...
What type of light is composed of many rays hav...
                How do yeasts reproduce? asexually
In science, what can be described as a set of s...
What does the body derive from the breakdown of...
A mitotic spindle forms from the centrioles and...
Substances produced by a reaction are known as?...
What happens to the core of a star when it begi...
          What occurs when air masses meet? fronts
What's the name for a cluster of genes, where o...
The diversity of alleles and genotypes within a...
What does temperature measure? average kinetic ...
What is the term for when the water of the ocea...
Female monotremes lack a uterus and vagina. ins...
Pigments are substances that absorb what? visib...
What class of oxygencontaining compounds is for...
Group 16 is called the oxygen group. what is th...
In his work with pea plants, mendel performed w...
What type of minerals form when salt water evap...
What are identified by the azimuthal quantum nu...
Desert plants have special stems and leaves to ...
What substance causes oxidation by accepting el...
Angiosperm success is a result of two novel str...
Squamata is the largest order of what broad ani...
Animals that have been modified to express reco...
In a medium, the closer the distribution of the...
When substances pass through the cell membrane ...
Elements that do not need to conduct electricit...
What does the moon not have to protect it from ...
What happens between particles with opposite ch...
Which generation of a plant is generally larger...
Mammals belong to which class of vertebrates? e...
Animals that have feeding patterns that are som...
                 What organs produce eggs? ovaries
What kind of reaction adds water to an organic ...
How much larger can the most powerful light mic...
In mammals, air is warmed and humidified in wha...
What is the specialized tissue that transports ...
What is the term for the method of sending out ...
In autosomal dominant inheritance only one "aff...
When the nucleus divides, the two chromatids th...
What is the layer above the troposphere? strato...
Which system consists of organs that break down...
What part of the eye controls the size of the p...
Depending on a tumor’s location, for example, c...
Sodium is an example of what sort of thing that...
   What type of resource is water power? renewable
Which part of the plant is responsible for seed...
The two main agents of soil erosion are water a...
What do aggregate fruits like raspberries form ...
What kind of ions are named by adding the suffi...
These resources can be remade quickly, through ...
Inorganic chemical compounds can be broadly cla...
Fish are a diverse and interesting group of org...
Spinal cord injuries are notoriously difficult ...
The ratio of displacement to time interval is t...
What is the modern periodic table based on? ato...
The needle of a compass is made of what element...
What is the process in which the genetic code i...
What type of protein speeds up chemical reactio...
In what part of the lungs is pulmonary gas exch...
What phenomenon occurs when strong winds blow s...
             When does the nucleus divide? mitosis
Olfactory, optic, and vestibulocochlear nerves ...
What happens when alkanes are mixed with oxygen...
At the bottom of lakes and ponds, bacteria in w...
What is the name for a heterotroph that eats on...
What is the name of an extreme form of radiatio...
In what form is most of the earth's freshwater?...
What cells do lymphocytes originate from in the...
What is the common name for a simple harmonic o...
What kind of process occurs without the need fo...
              What are fungus-like protists? molds
Electrons exist only where the wave is what? st...
What are the simplest hydrocarbons? saturated h...
The shield type of what phenomenon commonly for...
Bromide is present in brines, which are natural...
What shape are the eight sides of an octahedra?...
Unlike an adult sponge, what stage is motile du...
What weather phenomenon, which may bring clouds...
 What keeps glaciers from forming in water? warmth
The human skeleton is an endoskeleton that cons...
What's the name for the process where pollen is...
 At what time of the year can tornadoes occur? any
             How is sediment transported? currents
Where are all hormones secreted into before ent...
Vertebrates have tissues which are organized in...
What can renewable resources can be replaced by...
When warm air rises up to the tropopause, where...
What kind of messages do neurons send? electric...
What forces in liquids are strong enough to kee...
Which chromosome is associated with cri du chat...
The strong affinity of concentrated sulfuric ac...
Where in the female body does egg production ta...
What is the amorphous form of carbon prepared b...
What do gametes undergo to produce many additio...
The greenhouse effect on earth is caused by an ...
What is the term for the quantity of heat requi...
In animals, how many sets of chromosomes do gam...
             What scale measures acidity? ph scale
What is sulfur trioxide dissolved in to form su...
Mendelian inheritance has its physical basis in...
The parasympathetic system can also be referred...
Negative feedback controls insulin secretion by...
In the past, what colliding with planet earth h...
The number, size, shape, and banding pattern of...
What are the egg shaped organs on either side o...
A voltaic cell uses what type of reaction to ge...
Binary compounds of carbon with less electroneg...
What makes viral stis more dangerous than other...
     What flows like taffy or hot wax? molten rock
What unit of measurement determines how far som...
What happens do the sound during a resonance? a...
With a diet of live animals such as birds, smal...
Which types of compounds are more likely to bur...
Which of newton's law shows that there is a dir...
Which proteins recognize and combine with harmf...
What type of behavioral rhythms are linked to t...
What type of scientist uses earth-orbiting tele...
Sponges possess an internal skeleton called wha...
A fundamental particle of matter, protons and n...
What is the name of the smaller molecules that ...
What is the term for a state of matter that yie...
Many structures in fish are adaptations for wha...
What takes place at some coastlines or along th...
The major classes of living members of this phy...
What is the thin coat of phospholipids that sur...
Because conditions are not ideal, most populati...
Besides the inner membrane, where are many resp...
The most common elements have the most tightly ...
What are particles that feel the strong nuclear...
Aquatic producers need nutrients and what disso...
All elements are most stable when their outermo...
What do you need to do to water to make it stea...
When scientists work in natural settings rather...
What is released into the atmosphere when fossi...
The leaf chameleon (brookesia micra) was discov...
Water and many metals are materials that have l...
What is the name of the science that is concern...
What substance can be identified by their atomi...
What do you call the first cell of a new organi...
What planet in our solar system has a moon with...
Kangaroos, koalas, and opossums are examples of...
Fe for iron and pb for lead are examples of ele...
Referring to low what, hypovolemia may be cause...
What particles allow fungi to reproduce through...
What is the term for an underground layer of ro...
Where do most ecosystems get energy from? sunlight
Maintaining a high metabolic rate takes a lot o...
Electrons can move from one atom to another; wh...
Energy is absorbed as reactants are converted t...
What is the permanent prevention of gamete prod...
Because pathogenic bacteria typically cause dis...
What cycle vital to plants includes a process c...
Cerebral palsy is a disease caused by injury to...
What substance is removed from waste as it pass...
The distance between two consecutive z discs or...
        What is the largest taxonomic rank? domain
Which system is divided into the somatic and au...
The composition of the magma determines if the ...
The shape of the path of an object undergoing p...
What type of animals breathe with gills as larv...
The most abundant formed elements in blood, ery...
What is the scale on which acidity is measured? ph
Almost all fungi reproduce asexually by produci...
Thomson’s plum pudding model shows the structur...
What type of carbons may be gases, liquids, or ...
What diagnostic technology uses high-frequency ...
At what time of life does menopause occur? in m...
What type of current carries warm air from surr...
What quality of sound makes a tuba and a piccol...
Where is the food supply and embryo stored in a...
Most arthropods are insects. the phylum also in...
A cartilaginous joint where the bones are joine...
The horizontal stems on strawberry plants are c...
What are the newest, outer layers of secondary ...
Most amphibians breathe with these as larvae? g...
Defined as a substance in foods and beverages t...
Genetic disorders are diseases caused by what? ...
Transgenic animals are animals that have incorp...
What structure of a cell is enclosed by a membr...
Does air temperature increase or decrease as it...
During what do homologous chromosomes separate ...
The light reactions take place in which membran...
Fossils themselves and the order in which they ...
     Hormones send what through your body? signals
What does the armor including spines in some sp...
Individual nucleotides can be linked together t...
The name silicon is derived from the latin word...
What two types of juices help digestion within ...
Cells in a biofilm secrete what to recruit near...
A standing wave is created when what type of wa...
The kidneys are a pair of bean-shaped structure...
What term means anything that is detected eithe...
The white fluffy part of popcorn is also what? ...
What change can you expect in vectors that are ...
Where is roughage fermented and digested in pse...
How quickly a population changes in size over t...
Electromagnetic waves transfer energy across sp...
What is the term for abnormally low blood level...
The vivid colors of flowers are an adaptation d...
Arthropods change into the adult form in a proc...
   What is the largest part of the brain? cerebrum
What type of weathering breaks rock into smalle...
The coordination sphere consists of the central...
What functions like a flexible coat of armor, p...
The marine west coast climate gets lots of rain...
What determines whether a volcanic eruption wil...
Platinum and gold are useful materials for cons...
How many set of chromosomes do moss have? singl...
When you change a magnetic field through electr...
Morphological and molecular data indicate that ...
Nonmetal structures contain what type of bonds?...
Gas lines should be made of what so they do not...
What is the lipid-rich sheath that surrounds th...
    Where is urine formed in the body? the kidneys
What is the term for rain consisting of water w...
What type of ecosystem do polar bears live in? ...
                   Pseudopods are false what? feet
Ionic bonds are what kind of attraction between...
What type of change occurs when matter changes ...
Australia is home to many endemic species. the ...
What do you call structures like a whale's pelv...
What type of hybridization does ammonia undergo...
What does increased temperature do to a substan...
What natural process is associated with the dea...
What color and shape are cumulus clouds? white ...
During the early paleozoic, the amount of carbo...
Physical science is defined as the study of wha...
What do you call the two ends of a magnet where...
The scale that is used to measure the loudness ...
What are located on either side of the pharynx ...
What kind of reproduction requires the fusion o...
Diseases of the lungs, bronchial tubes, trachea...
What factor other than genes is important in de...
What does burning wood release into the atmosph...
The largest region of each of the palatine bone...
What does viscosity do to liquids? resistant to...
What system is involved in diseases that includ...
What are are organisms that feed on small piece...
What process would be impossible without some v...
Monoecious flowers are also known as “perfect” ...
Human beings depend on learned behaviors more t...
Oxygen, carbon, hydrogen and what other element...
What type electrical circuits have multiple pat...
Hydrophobic interactions arise because water mo...
What is the second most common skin cancer? squ...
Species divergence often, but not always, occur...
The chytrids the only class in the phylum chytr...
Almost all vascular plants have mycorrhizae and...
What occurs when there is a sudden and large fa...
What are gymnosperms lacking compared to most a...
Calculations are described showing conversions ...
What sudden ground movement is caused by the su...
What is the name for the cooler, darker areas o...
Plants need sunlight for what process? photosyn...
The vast majority of what phenomena occurs alon...
What weather events move with the prevailing wi...
What is the name for the male reproductive orga...
What glands in the breast secrete milk? mammary...
Sutures, gomphoses, and syndesmoses are types o...
Heat, electricity, or light might provide what ...
What is made up of a watery substance called cy...
What type of energy is required in all chemical...
What type of image is formed when light rays di...
What is the condition of a plant in which the f...
What phenomenon, crucial for evolution, creates...
What is the name of the stage of life when a ch...
       A man made lake is known as what? resevoirs
Alchemy helped improve the study of metallurgy ...
What are the two types of vascular tissues? xyl...
The spinal cord develops, cells making up the w...
Eventually the parent cell will pinch apart to ...
The body cells cannot use insulin properly in w...
Birds belong to a group of diapsids called the ...
                How many limbs to birds have? four
Planes fly in what layer of the atmosphere beca...
What is a group of similar ecosystems with the ...
Interferons are produced in virally infected ce...
What slow process is required for formation of ...
What is defined as superheated gas with a posit...
Materials, such as iron, that exhibit strong ma...
Like birds, most other reptiles excrete their n...
The two main fundamental particles that make up...
Birds have evolved a respiratory system that en...
Lysosomes have what type of enzymes that break ...
The breasts contain what to give milk to feed a...
What form when water vapor condenses in the air...
All other forms of life, including plants and a...
A mycorrhiza refers to what kind of relationshi...
    What is earth's main source of energy? the sun
Kirchhoff’s second rule (the loop rule) is an a...
Evolution over a short period of time at the le...
When water is heated by magma and makes it's wa...
The mechanical and digestive processes have one...
Influenza virus is packaged in a viral envelope...
A desert is a type of what community in an ecos...
What are the two types of properties that matte...
What is the hormone produced in high-stress sit...
What type of reaction causes two substances to ...
Hay fever is actually an allergy to what substa...
Endotherms are warmed mostly by heat generated ...
If a ball is released from rest when air resist...
What term is used to describe the ability of ma...
What is the evolutionary history of group of re...
What forms a ketone when oxidized? secondary al...
What is the energy that flows as a result of a ...
Exposure to toxins is most damaging during week...
What evolutionary process may affect the distri...
What type of force exists between two touching ...
A short reflex is completely what and only invo...
The urea cycle, a set of biochemical reactions ...
Cellular respiration is the reverse or opposite...
What force pulls object downwards to the earth?...
How does deeper material cause convection in th...
From what did the first proto-oncogenes arise? ...
What material used for helium-filled balloons i...
What do erythrocytes carry and deliver to tissu...
How many neutrons do 99% of carbon atoms have? six
What are the two metals within a battery called...
What is one thing that can not happen to energy...
Where do most biochemical reactions take place?...
The ends of linear chromosomes are maintained b...
Through which process does water from the ocean...
In what type of process does heat flow into its...
Prokaryotic organisms, like bacteria, reproduce...
Displacement is a vector quantity, which means ...
  Waste leaves the body in the form of what? feces
What process can occur when atoms are exposed t...
Who should an obese person with an eating disor...
The period of life between the start of puberty...
What element once commonly used in paint and ga...
What can happen spontaneously or as a result of...
Abnormally high activity or low activity of the...
Unlike other tetrapod vertebrates (reptiles, bi...
What is the name for an underground layer of ro...
What are prepared by the oxidation of secondary...
Saturated and unsaturated are the two main kind...
     Most reptiles lay what kind of eggs? amniotic
Sulfur can combine with oxygen to produce what?...
The nitrogen that enters living systems by nitr...
What term describes the amount of solute in a g...
Which process helps absorptive protists absorb ...
When matter recycles and changes state what doe...
   Where does oxygen enter the blood? in the lungs
What kind of compounds change color when bases ...
Concentric circles that spread out through the ...
The smallest units of matter that retain the un...
What is a process that changes some chemical su...
What type of lens and mirrors have a negative f...
What is the formation of organs from the germ l...
What must two nuclei do for fusion to occur? co...
What determines the ability of soil particles t...
Enthalpy is a measure of the total energy of wh...
In eukaryotes, the new mrna is not yet ready fo...
What term describes the splitting of the nucleu...
What type of contamination causes almost 90% of...
Why is respiratory acidosis considered to be pr...
When light strikes rhodopsin, the g-protein tra...
In what stage of photosynthesis does the calvin...
All of the planets rotate on their axes in the ...
What is the process by which organisms change i...
What regulates the cell cycle only when they ar...
Einstein developed a theory about how electroma...
What type of proteins are only temporarily asso...
Which organisms break down either organic or in...
What are the things moving under the earth's ma...
Although they look like big rocks, what structu...
What type of reactions are chemical reactions t...
Fossil fuels and coal are examples of what kind...
What type of compound contains atoms of two or ...
What is formed when atoms of different elements...
What type of electricity is formed when a negat...
What important liquid is stored throughout the ...
What results when a warm air mass runs into a c...
Which type of double bond has a sigma bond and ...
Has the average annual temperature on earth bee...
The majoirty of modern gymnosperms belong to wh...
A circuit must be what in order for electric de...
What type of radiation from the sun reaches ear...
What happens if a catalyst runs out? reaction s...
What type of mammals are humans? placental mammals
The shape of the path of an object undergoing p...
  The earliest cells were called what? prokaryotes
     Protists are the simplest of what? eukaryotes
The measure of magnetic fields is named after a...
Radon (rn) is a radioactive gas formed by the d...
What state of matter takes neither the shape no...
Force times distance is the equation for what? ...
What is the name for a series of changes in the...
What is the name of the iron-containing oxygen-...
What is the active ingredient in household blea...
What are the membrane-bound organelles that are...
What broad category of animals is primarily ect...
What has two chains of nucleotides, one more th...
The axon terminates on muscle fibers at the neu...
Misconceptions about what theory contribute to ...
What device is used to stop a current in a circ...
What oily substance prevents the hair and skin ...
What two types of communication do both humans ...
Eggs are produced in what organs and, upon fert...
The first line of defense includes mechanical, ...
  What is another term for nearsightedness? myopia
Because all animals require an external source ...
         What causes blue litmus to turn red? acid
When fossil fuel is burned the chemical energy ...
What two activities are especially important wh...
What is the physical environment in which a spe...
What kind of tests may detect substances associ...
Scientists think the solar system formed from a...
What are the largest phylum of the animal kingd...
What is the name for a material that prevents t...
What is a rock exposed to if it's undergoing me...
Water infiltrates the ground because soil and r...
Work is done only if a force is exerted in the ...
What is the smallest independently functioning ...
All animals have specialized types of what basi...
What term describes the number of items in a gi...
Birds are known for flying south in the winter ...
The root system is usually anchored by one main...
What type of learning is done from past experie...
               Where is the pituitary gland? brain
Which fungi eaten by people all over the world?...
The outermost layer of the leaf is the epidermi...
A small quake preceding a large quake is called...
What do winter storms develop from at higher la...
What is the only substance on earth that is pre...
What is essential for forming new genes? large ...
What is fluid friction with air called? air res...
Plants produce their own sugars and other food ...
What do fission reactors use to slow down the n...
What term is used to describe an unusual sound ...
Carbon atoms are bonded to as many hydrogen ato...
What kind of mouthparts do aphids have? piercin...
Sounds, chemicals, and visual cues are examples...
       What is pressure times area equal to? force
What part of the kangaroo helps it balance when...
What is the evolutionary history of a group of ...
What are specialized cells in the brain that mo...
Bones consist of four types of tissue, compact ...
During adolescence, what causes most of the cha...
What is essential for cellular respiration for ...
Breeding in birds occurs through an internal ty...
In an endothermic reaction, what is absorbed by...
What scientist and monk is best known for his e...
What are structures that protect the coast like...
What leads to multiple copies of a chromosomal ...
The larger surface area of leaves allows them t...
What is connected to, and dependent on, the gam...
After passing through capillaries and being fil...
What kind of medical intervention seeks to erad...
The ostrich, kiwi, rhea, cassowary, and moa are...
What occurs when individuals of different speci...
Most fungi reproduce asexually by producing wha...
Alchemists, as early as the eighth century, kne...
Particles of sand and what other substance are ...
Most reptiles reproduce sexually and have what ...
What is type of substance is formed when water ...
What occur because solid lithosphere travels on...
         What is the unit of evolution? population
The boiling points of liquid also correlate to ...
Vitamin d is made in the skin when it is expose...
Of the three basic types of radioactive emissio...
Which ocean zone is the narrow strip along a co...
Elongation is the addition of what to the mrna ...
What is the distance north or south of the equa...
The force exerted by a diving board is conserva...
Along with other elements, most ores are made o...
The bottoms—but not the tops—of the wave slow d...
Molecular geometry is the three-dimensional arr...
     What mineral is used to produce glass? quartz
What is caused by atoms or ions when they share...
Due to the time it takes for light to reach us,...
Some membrane proteins that actively transport ...
In which human organ do the juveniles develop i...
Both sexes of sockeye salmon turn red with gree...
While the numerical aperture can be used to com...
Energy from the sun has a wide range of wavelen...
When something loses electrons, it must also? g...
Water and chemical elements that organisms need...
What is the most abundant biochemical compound,...
What organisms use cilia, pseudopods, or flagel...
During which phase do sister chromatids separat...
What term describes a type of redox reaction in...
Each organism inherits one of what item for eac...
What term is used to refer to the external fema...
Which state of matter has the lowest density? g...
Skeletal, cardiac, and smooth are the three typ...
What do glands in the skin produce to cool down...
The only obvious difference between boys and gi...
Mammals have a number of kinds of thermorecepto...
With a shape that specially suits its function ...
What is defined as the mass per unit volume of ...
What reaction means, literally, “splitting with...
Approximately how much larger is the radius of ...
What can be worn to protect hands and skin from...
What type of movements are produced when the an...
What senses the movement of liquid in ear canal...
What part of the brain regulates certain hormon...
What is any nonmetallic, inorganic solid that i...
What is the outer layer of the sun made up of? ...
Viruses may damage or kill cells by causing the...
Species that have diverged from their common an...
In a fuel cell, energy is not stored; electrica...
What substance comes toward earth's crust throu...
A plant is composed of two main types of tissue...
The smallest and lightest alcohols (methanol, e...
In which stage do chromosomes line up one on to...
If the frequency of the electromagnetic wave is...
When are nutrients absorbed into the body? duri...
What happens to the length of the days in the f...
Of the nine classes of vertebrates, how many ar...
After fertilization is complete, no other sperm...
What is a fluid-filled body cavity that is comp...
   Which is the least massive outer planet? uranus
The nervous system is characterized by electric...
What occurs when light reflects off a very smoo...
The head of the sperm contains what, which hold...
What system is responsible for defending your b...
What effect occurs when a few individuals start...
Each kidney is supplied by a renal artery and w...
What cell structures capture light energy from ...
What is released when catabolic pathways break ...
Mass and volume are examples of what kind of pr...
What technique is used by insects and birds to ...
What property of food is determined by burning ...
What simple machine works with a wheel and axle...
What type of joint has the greatest range of mo...
What is the movement of molecules from an area ...
Light-weight air-filled bones and a large four-...
The myod protein deserves its designation as a ...
When flagellated sperm must swim to the egg, se...
What consists of these five stages: prophase, p...
What is the name of the muscle at the end of th...
What do you call the high and low points of tra...
For each initial glucose molecules, two pyruvat...
Through which artery does blood enter the kidne...
Where do radio waves lie on the electromagnetic...
What links the trophic levels from producers to...
The waste of cows releases a lot of which type ...
What allows giraffes to reach leaves that other...
Chemical formulas for ionic compounds are calle...
What term is used to describe the full range of...
How many lobes is each hemisphere of the cerebr...
Varicose veins are veins that become enlarged b...
Liquids with strong intermolecular forces have ...
What kind of volcanoes often form along diverge...
An element symbol without a charge written next...
What is the fundamental unit of structure and f...
What characteristic of particles determines how...
What term refers to something supplied by natur...
What is the shape of the orbits that planets ma...
What are chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis an ...
What organism are resistant to freezing and dry...
What is produced during a condensation reaction...
What force pulls objects toward the center of t...
Where are protons and neutrons located? central...
What is a measurement of the amount of variatio...
Deleting or inserting a nitrogen base causes wh...
What are the chemical messengers used to commun...
Graphite and diamond both are made from carbon....
The paranasal sinuses are hollow, air-filled sp...
What determines the strength of a base when dis...
What is the low level of radiation that occurs ...
Varicella zoster virus causes what two illnesse...
The urethra transports urine from what organ to...
Magnetite crystals in lava typically point to w...
Liquids that mix with water in all proportions ...
Lattice energy cannot be measured directly. wha...
What process provides over 99% of the energy su...
What type of animal are most reptiles in regard...
Because of their reactivity, we do not find mos...
Two important concepts, niche and habitat, are ...
When does diseases like alzheimer's become more...
What is a fibrocartilaginous pad that fills the...
What organic catalysts work by lowering the act...
What structure supports the body, protects inte...
When vertebrate animals metabolize ammonia what...
Which process involves solvent separation on a ...
Plasmodesmata and gap junctions are channels be...
Natural gas burns cleaner and produces less car...
What are the simplest types of carbon-based com...
What process moves food through the esophagus n...
The female reproductive organs include the ovar...
What do offsprings obtain from their parents in...
Warming up your body before a workout does what...
What is a substance that increases the hydrogen...
Scientists ask questions, and then make detaile...
What is the main difference between prokaryotic...
Supercontinents have formed at least how many t...
How are layers of the atmosphere divided? tempe...
What term is used to describe molecules that co...
Birds have a flow-through respiratory system in...
What are convection currents that occur far bel...
Cations are attracted to anions, which are ions...
A non-bony skeleton that forms outside of the b...
The vagina connects to which internal organ? ut...
 What is the measure of electric current? ampheres
Name a passageway that is shared with the diges...
What substances function as a long-term energy ...
Thermal, radiant, electrical, nuclear, and chem...
     Coronary arteries ans small in what? diameter
What occurs when a substance reacts quickly wit...
What are the two basic types of competition cal...
Algae are much simpler than protozoa. they are ...
What is a gram stain used to identify ? differe...
Burning gas to run our cars is an example of ho...
The periodic table of elements is divided into ...
Wave amplitude of a transverse wave is the diff...
What is secreted before ejaculation to neutrali...
Because conifers carry both male and female spo...
Who lack some of the defining traits of chordat...
What does convection within the earth's mantel ...
Autoimmunity can develop with time, and its cau...
Why does warm air rise higher in the tropospher...
Getting the same result when an experiment is r...
Some membranes have what kind of surfaces expos...
Plants and fungi cells have what basic cell str...
The way in which the sun produces light is call...
What kind of light bulb contains a thin wire fi...
What do you call a mixture in which some partic...
What do you call the process of a solid becomin...
Once a plant cell becomes specialized, what can...
The hardest natural substance, diamond is a for...
Much of what type of radiation that strikes the...
What particles are formed from a neutron in bet...
What class of acids do carboxylic acids fall un...
Plants can absorb inorganic nutrients and water...
Giardia is an example of a protozoa that uses f...
Nearly all earthquakes occur where? plate bound...
Conotoxins released by certain marine snails ca...
What is the second largest planet in the solar ...
Fruit comes from the ovaries of what types of p...
Resistors connected end to end are said to be i...
Molar mass is equal to density multiplied by wh...
What plastid makes and stores other pigments? c...
What effect causes global winds to blow on a di...
When members of the same species compete for th...
Antibiotics only target prokaryotic cells - the...
What do bees carry from one plant to another to...
Why is the drift velocity negligible? many free...
Instruments that measure the angle of the slope...
What is the term for preserved remains or trace...
Birds flying thousands of miles south in the wi...
The hydration of what is what makes many alcoho...
             What causes oxides to decompose? heat
With codominance, both alleles are expressed eq...
When hit from behind in a car crash, a passenge...
When a species always migrates, what is this ty...
How are valuable metabolites recovered? reabsor...
Structures that have lost their use through evo...
What does continental crust grade into at conti...
What body system consists of organs that break ...
Some samples of matter appear to have propertie...
Stimuli in the brain, stomach, and small intest...
What is the term for a symbiotic relationship i...
What does the a1c test measure over the past tw...
What is the term for liquid waste formed by kid...
Why does metal conduct heat and electricity so ...
Liverworts are small plants that grow close to ...
What do atoms make by rearranging their chemica...
Spindle fibers pull what apart in anaphase i? l...
What type of mutations cannot be passed on to o...
What is the process in which cells break down g...
Dew point is the temperature at which what occu...
In what type of diabetes can the pancreas still...
What are the two classifications of factors in ...
What do increasing greenhouse gas concentration...
What is the name of a microorganism that is con...
What bone cell is responsible for forming new b...
Individuals with what condition experience depi...
What do decomposers release back to the environ...
What are the areas between cells that either al...
Arguably the most important ingredient in saliv...
What element can form two different compounds w...
Each protein has its own unique sequence and sh...
Because they can cause diseases in plants, some...
What is another common term for single-unit smo...
What is the term for the horizontal displacemen...
What types of stimuli control endocrine activit...
What events, resulting in death of over half of...
What is most of the water used in agriculture u...
What is a collection of fibrin, platelets, and ...
Acidity is measured on what kind of scale? ph s...
What is the enclosed, fluid-filled membrane tha...
Alzheimer’s disease is a disease that occurs ma...
        What do sudoriferous glands secrete? sweat
Group 15 of the periodic table is also called w...
Humans need lipids for many vital functions suc...
What bond is a force of attraction between ions...
What type of cells are the smallest of all huma...
Vertebrates also require relatively large quant...
What contains most of the structures found in s...
What is the study of matter and energy referred...
What do you call the ability of a particular el...
What is a controlled scientific study of specif...
What happened to earth's species during the per...
Which organ in the body controls the amount of ...
What is corrosive mixture is formulated by the ...
What type of pollutants enter the air directly?...
What type of reaction is a process in which som...
What is the number placed in front of a chemica...
Through what does urine enter the bladder? the ...
The male and female reproductive system is regu...
How do plants grow? through cell growth and cel...
What part of the brain is attached to the brain...
Plants are described by what term, meaning thei...
What is a primary source of the hormone melaton...
How many more times likely are men to suffer fr...
Misfolding of polypeptides is a serious problem...
What does the inner membrane divide into two in...
Defined as total distance traveled divided by e...
Lymph capillaries collect fluid that leaks out ...
Action potentials occur whenever a depolarizati...
 Programmed cell death is also known as? apoptosis
What happens to the mass number during a nuclea...
Embryos usually don't survive if they have extr...
Like the other outer planets, neptune has rings...
In an electromagnetic wave, what do the crests ...
What biome is located between the temperate and...
Metabolism is the sum of all catabolic and whic...
Diarrhea due to food poisoning is an example of...
White light is a mixture of all wavelengths of ...
What prevents solutes that have accumulated in ...
Hydrogen chloride contains one atom of hydrogen...
What property of toluene and xylene makes them ...
The earliest cells were prokaryotes, surrounded...
When is the rate of the forward reaction equal ...
In which process do signaling molecules from em...
Every species has a characteristic number of wh...
Ecologists already use the abilities of many pr...
How is most evidence gathered in science? lab e...
Phosphate groups are found within phospholipids...
Yogurt is made with milk fermented with what? b...
  What is energy from the sun called? solar energy
What is the term for when gravity pulls soil, m...
   Metals are good conductors of what? electricity
What plant hormone allows plants to curve in a ...
What is the most common type of organic compoun...
Dissolved oxygen in seawater is critical for se...
Light waves differ based on their frequency and...
What kind of diseases can be difficult to treat...
What type of cellular respiration occurs in the...
Stomata must control the transpiration of water...
If pollination and fertilization occur, a diplo...
What makes up 99 percent of air? nitrogen and o...
What is the process in which producers get thei...
Parasitism, mutualism, and commensalism are ins...
The cell wall of plants is made up of a complex...
Which metal is not a solid even at room tempera...
How do molecules react when a gas is heated? th...
Mountain building and earthquakes are some of t...
What is defined as maintaining a stable interna...
What element chemically weathers rock by combin...
Porifera are parazoans that exhibit simple orga...
The values of which factors are controlled by t...
What are the most common causes of brain injuri...
Electrons are located at fixed distances from t...
Which factor has a big impact on coastal climat...
What occurs when light bends as it passes from ...
What is a polymer formed by chain addition reac...
What do you call resources that can be replaced...
The type of vesicle transport that moves a subs...
What characteristic of birds is related to the ...
  What tube carries urine out of the body? urethra
What plant products may be classified as simple...
What term describes the amount of material pres...
What class of animals includes the subgroups ro...
What is the transfer of thermal energy by waves...
The lighter photic zone and darker aphotic zone...
Plant cuttings are an example of what type of r...
Destructive interference in waves occurs when w...
When two plates of continental crust collide, t...
    What is split to produce nuclear energy? atoms
What measures the amount of matter in an object...
What is the primary component of steel alloys? ...
Light energy is absorbed by which kind of molec...
What is the second class of fish after ray-finn...
Regulation of endocrine depends on the hypothal...
What according to scientists is the major cause...
What is a soft, malleable, and corrosion resist...
Momentum is a vector quantity that has the same...
What type of role does cartilage play in the hu...
Prokaryotes divide via binary fission and do no...
Light with the shortest wavelength appears as w...
What is lava called before it reaches the surfa...
What is the term for atherosclerosis of arterie...
Food is chemical energy stored in what? organic...
What has a bigger impact on water quality, natu...
What is the amount of energy required to begin ...
Acne is a skin disturbance that typically occur...
What are the two main components in a battery? ...
Lots of volcanoes form along which boundaries? ...
Which body organ filters the blood in the body ...
Compared with the molecules of many other subst...
Greater reflection off what atmospheric layer a...
Earth spinning as air moves over its surface ca...
Beryllium hydride consists of a central berylli...
Amides are actually formed by bringing together...
What are long living plasma cells called? memor...
When do homologous chromosomes separate and go ...
What type of cells are often the product of nor...
Which ductless gland releases secretions direct...
When different types of tissues work together t...
Over 90% of the energy we use comes originally ...
What term is used to describe an illusion that ...
           How do prokaryotes reproduce? asexually
What does hemoglobin in blood carry to the cell...
Surface tension comes from the fact that partic...
Where do biochemical reactions occer? inside or...
What type of behavior has the advantage of bein...
This process breaks rocks and other surface mat...
What is the main element in organic compounds? ...
           What is the basic unit of matter? atoms
What theory proposes that microorganisms are th...
Water is a polar compound, so its molecules are...
What is the term for a substance that causes th...
What is it called when rays focus at different ...
Brass and bronze are examples of what type of m...
What is a region of repetitive noncoding nucleo...
           What is the color of mercury oxide? red
At a convergent plate boundary, when one plate ...
What is the term for the wavelengths of light h...
What is the charge on a single electron known a...
What mineral that occurs in bones helps combat ...
When the wind deposits sand, it forms small hil...
Carboxylic acids have an acidic hydrogen atom, ...
Latitude, humidity, and elevation affect the ty...
The distance between two crests of a wave of li...
What is the basic unit of structure and functio...
Which organ in the human body filters blood and...
Sugars are simple types of what biochemical com...
          What type of tissue is blood? connective
What is the force that causes objects to fall d...
The distance of stars is measured in what terms...
What type of matter often sinks into cracks bet...
Name a one-celled organism that can be found on...
What type of power is generated using a nonrene...
             The earth is tilted on its what? axis
What can human facial expressions communicate? ...
What are the two types of vascular plants? seed...
What type of flexion is the bending of the neck...
Common wisdom has it that the temporal bone (te...
Catenulids typically reproduce asexually by bud...
What gland secretes a fluid that mixes with spe...
During an earthquake what causes seismic waves?...
What term describes waves that travel through m...
What type of radioactive decay is generally onl...
Energy that is stored in a person or object is ...
What is a sac filled with fluid or other materi...
What is released during an enthalpy reaction? heat
Solutions of ionic compounds and melted ionic c...
Quantum mechanics involves the study of materia...
What is the name of muscular blood vessels that...
He mass spectrometer measures the percent abund...
For what kind of animal is communication essent...
The wavelength of a wave is the distance betwee...
Sandblasting a surface exemplifies what form of...
How do fungus-like protists such as slime molds...
Exchange occurs directly with the external envi...
Which part of a neuron contains the nucleus and...
The oceans affect earth’s atmosphere and influe...
What are surrounded by a cell wall consisting o...
Snake venom may join the class of drugs collect...
Thousands of receptor cells that detect the sex...
All solutions contain at least how many substan...
                 Life probably began where? oceans
An enzyme is an organic catalyst produced by wh...
  Gasoline is derived from which other liquid? oil
What is the disease in which cells grow out of ...
What travels at a rate of 300,000 kilometers pe...
When atomic orbitals hybridize, the valence ele...
Roundworms feed on various things, one of them ...
In preparation for phagocytosis, a portion of t...
What is the main form of energy storage in plan...
Something supplied by nature that helps support...
Initial substances are called reactants, and th...
What were the electrons initially called? catho...
What is the type of energy that involves moveme...
What do sharks use to secrete salt to assist in...
Why do viruses not belong to any domain of life...
What is a change in the sequence of bases in dn...
Metallic solids are composed entirely of which ...
What compound gives tarnished copper it's green...
As the population grows, competition for food d...
What is the property by which water molecules s...
What is the main sex hormone in males called? t...
What is the name of the tube that joins the mou...
Unlike bryophyte and fern spores (which are hap...
Limestone is insoluble in water, so what can di...
Monatomic ions have an oxidation number equal t...
Some flatworms are free-living carnivores that ...
Characterized by a short lifespan, what begin w...
What force is perpendicular to velocity and cau...
What are physical properties that do not depend...
What does the secretion of the hormone cholecys...
What term is used to describe the electrostatic...
Symptoms of viral diseases result from what kin...
The most common carbon atoms have six protons a...
What type of organisms have internal clocks tha...
How often does condensation occur in your cells...
Overharvesting is a serious threat particularly...
What are the cells that break down inorganic mo...
Each type of electromagnetic radiation has a ch...
     What are clouds on earth made of? water vapor
What do extensive properties depend on the amou...
What is the term for the rate at which velocity...
What determines which codon in the mrna the trn...
What is the term for the complete set of genes ...
What unit of pressure is named for the scientis...
Oxygen and what are required for rust to form? ...
What is the process called in which a magnet lo...
The earliest animals were which kind of inverte...
A lake is an example of what type of biome? fre...
What kinds of waves are composed of various osc...
When is the sun directly over the equator? equinox
What does the base of a nucleotide within dna c...
Which bones are flat and triangular and located...
What always has the same elements in the same r...
Prior to ovulation, ovarian steroid hormones st...
All polar compounds contain what type of bonds?...
What often occurs on steep slopes in dry climat...
What kind of organisms have many different type...
Part of the scientific process, these are stati...
Ecology is a major branch of what higher-level ...
What is necessary for organisms to survive in t...
What is the process of larva becoming an adult ...
Capillaries rejoin to form venules, which conve...
Although it is not vital to humans, calcitonin ...
 What force holds planets in their orbits? gravity
The nature of what gives metals the properties ...
What are the special compartments that are surr...
Molds and casts usually form in which type of r...
What is a hole that is dug or drilled through t...
When is a moving car said to be in dynamic equi...
Every chemical reaction between molecules invol...
The mass percentage of a solution component is ...
Harmful instances of what can result in errors ...
When dissolved in water, the base sodium hydrox...
What precious resource allows us to grow food a...
In what part of the body do escherichia coli ba...
Which state of matter has an intermediate level...
In recent years, it has been hypothesized that ...
What is the diversity of living things called? ...
All lipids have two distinct domains, a hydroph...
Oxytocin, which stimulates the contractions of ...
When represented by a single letter dominant al...
      What do loess deposits form? vertical cliffs
Electrical messages are carried by chemicals ca...
Another major cause of extinction is global war...
What shape rash is formed from a skin infection...
What type of bonds only form in metals? metalli...
The last major ice age took place in which era?...
What signals the secretion of gastric acid? gas...
Each microspore develops into a pollen grain co...
What is used to describe gas concentrations of ...
What type of organism has many different specia...
What types of bonds hold together positive meta...
The once compressed universe expanded rapidly a...
Do metals tend to gain electrons or lose electr...
Living things evolve what characteristics that ...
         Where are the two tonsils located? throat
The chemistry of each element is determined by ...
What is defined as the amount of force acting o...
Which type of energy is the energy of anything ...
What are large sheets of ice that cover relativ...
What is the accelerating pattern of increasing ...
Ions can be formed when atoms lose what other p...
Deserts are generally dry ecosystems having ver...
The average number of individuals per unit of a...
The top 200 meters of water is called what zone...
A homogeneous mixture with tiny particles in it...
What is the term for decomposers that consume d...
If a gas in a closed area experiences increases...
What is the term for the hard covering that pro...
What gas is expired out of the body during exha...
Through this process, algae provide glucose for...
      What determines your hair color trait? genes
What layer of skin is directly under the epider...
What is caused by bodies sliding over rough sur...
The electromagnetic spectrum represents the ful...
Distinguishing between homology and analogy is ...
What do many mollusks secrete for their protect...
What were the first particles with mass to be d...
What is a simple machine that consists of a rop...
What helps screen libraries for a gene of inter...
What is one way of classifying organisms called...
The earliest stages of spermatogenesis occur cl...
Which of the electromagnetic waves have the sho...
The oxidation of an alcohol can produce either ...
Change in momentum in an object is equivalent t...
      Where does most water evaporate from? oceans
Which waves have the longest wavelengths but th...
The effect of gravity on circulation means that...
Red blood cells, white blood cells and what oth...
      How many dimensions can humans see in? three
What do you call the unhealthy synthetic lipids...
In what type of climate might one find deciduou...
Cellular respiration involves forming atp from ...
The magnitude of the wave function at a particu...
Representing a leap in scientific understanding...
Green algae and land plants are closely what? r...
      How many alleles control a characteristic? 2
All living things are able to produce what? off...
What is the smallest volcanic landform that is ...
 What are surface currents mainly caused by? winds
What kind of solids are generally classified by...
  What can often be used to measure distance? maps
Which single most factor is responsible for the...
The differing glycosidic linkages in starch and...
  What is the angiosperm seed surrounded by? ovary
Which process helps bacteria in the gut break d...
Unlike wild animals, what type of species are g...
The diapsids diverged into two groups, the arch...
A few elements, called what, can conduct electr...
Which type of eruptions created the entire ocea...
What is damaged in the inner ear by loud sounds...
The energy in sunlight is also known as what ki...
In what form is the heat absorbed when you heat...
The sugar of one nucleotide binds to what group...
How does the image focused by the eye travel to...
If a human only has 45 chromosomes it is most l...
The digestive organs within the abdominal cavit...
What season causes people to look forward to sp...
What are the narrowest blood vessels, where oxy...
What is quantified by measuring the number of d...
What is a measure of the force of gravity pulli...
      What is the atomic number? number of protons
Some isotopes are stable indefinitely, while ot...
Cellular respiration uses oxygen to harvest wha...
A red blood cell will swell and burst when plac...
Which type of lava lavas are less viscous and e...
What are often formed biologically during the b...
What produces the centripetal force to keep the...
Group 13 of the periodic table is also called w...
What type of tissue transports water and minera...
What produces enzymes that digest carbohydrates...
At what temperature does solid water melt to a ...
How many more legs do spiders have compared to ...
Almost all energy at earth's surface comes from...
What is the first step in protein synthesis? tr...
What branch of biology focuses on heredity? gen...
Stars are born in clouds, and they form and gro...
 What has atoms with unstable nuclei? radioisotope
What is the tissue beneath a mollusks' shell ca...
What is formed from an alcohol that loses water...
What is the division of the body into multiple ...
What reproductive method has two parents involv...
In many cases, the alkali metal amide salt (mnh...
An example of beta decay is the emission of an ...
Which theory describes the distribution of elec...
Oversecretion of insulin can cause what? hypogl...
The first few species to colonize a disturbed a...
What are the two loops of blood flow in the car...
What is the name of a group of hereditary disea...
Protists which use their tails to eat are calle...
What term is used to describe foods containing ...
What helps control the muscles and maintain bal...
What unit of power is equal to 1 joule of energ...
What is just below the cerebrum and coordinates...
What part of blood releases clotting factors? p...
Adding carbon to iron makes what type of metal?...
Which structure includes sugar-phosphate "backb...
In a hydrogen replacement reaction, the hydroge...
Mitosis and meiosis are both forms of division ...
What is the last step in a scientific investiga...
Where is multiple fission more often observed? ...
What type of invertebrates where the earliest a...
Unlike wood and glass, steel is an example of a...
Carefully controlling the speed of a fission re...
When two electric contacts come together it com...
Pure nonpolar covalent bonds exist only between...
The decay rate is measured in a unit called the...
What is a condition in which a material called ...
Quarks in the middle energy family are found in...
What celestial body in the solar system makes u...
Free ear lobes, widow's peak and a dimpled chin...
Producing light without heat is called what? lu...
What natural part of the water cycle can cause ...
How many large eggs are generated during oogene...
Gaseous nitrogen is converted into forms that c...
What is an example of a disease that affects th...
Name the term used to described prokaryotes tha...
Many ionic compounds with relatively large cati...
What property increases as an object's mass inc...
What will happen to sea levels due to increased...
Sea-lilies, sea cucumbers and sea stars fall in...
What kind of rock forms when material such as g...
In science, we need to make observations on var...
What do industries use water to generate? elect...
Mammals are synapsids, meaning they have a sing...
What are the properties of solutions called tha...
Liquids that mix with each other in all proport...
Which law relates the pressure, volume, and tem...
Heat and light are forms of what, which refers ...
Volcano chains form as an oceanic plate moves o...
       What type of planet is jupiter? a gas giant
What does antifreeze do to the freezing tempera...
What process typically occurs to metal exposed ...
The innermost layer of the sun is known as what...
Motor neurons and sensory neurons are part of w...
What type of science is the study of matter and...
When plants lose their leaves in the fall, what...
In which kind of animals does parthenogenesis o...
What is the name of the temporary organ that be...
What term is used to describe anything that tak...
          What is the organ that senses sound? ear
What can be described in terms of size, density...
What is the term for the simplest form of matte...
        What causes light to refract? slowing down
Capacitors can be used to filter out low freque...
What is made up of nerve cells that sense stimu...
Some animals prepare for the long winter by goi...
It may seem as though burning destroys matter, ...
Different isotopes of an element have different...
Density is defined as the mass of an object div...
What element is responsible for one-half of the...
What types of orbits do comets usually have? el...
What describes how close an estimate is to a kn...
Canoe paddles, nutcracker, and hammer are examp...
What do most species of monkeys have that no ap...
What are joints in which the bones are connecte...
What are the four stages of food processing? in...
What are different forms of the same gene? alleles
What is the wheeled robot developed by nasa to ...
What effect does taking anabolic steroids have ...
Living in a large colony requires good communic...
What complex carbohydrates are the polymers of ...
What is the term for the shallow space above th...
What is the inner layer of skin called? the dermis
Many european and asiatic elms are less suscept...
      What does a thermometer measure? temperature
        What are plant-like protists called? algae
What is a series of processes that remove unwan...
Original atoms are called what type of isotopes...
What do you call an area covered with water, or...
In which continent are meerkats most likely to ...
What is the name of the thin layer that acts as...
What is the process of removing wastes and exce...
Which measure shows how individuals in a popula...
What is a simple carbohydrate with the chemical...
 Groups of related organs form what? organ systems
Each lymph organ has a different job in what sy...
The number of protons in an atom is called what...
Crevasses are found in glaciers. how do these c...
Combining nonpolar olive oil and polar vinegar ...
If no conclusion is reached after an experiment...
What builds up in an artery and reduces blood f...
Compounds with metals and nonmetals sharing ele...
What are the only organisms that can perform ph...
What is an interesting example of a molecule wi...
What is the name of the fungi that are ubiquito...
All the atoms of a given element have the same ...
What causes a voltage to exist across the membr...
A synergist that makes the insertion site more ...
What system of the body is generally responsibl...
Carbon dioxide does not rise like other gases b...
What is the property that determines the amount...
In glycolysis, glucose is split into two molecu...
       What organ do we use to hear sound? the ear
           Mixture of metals is called what? alloy
The rate the magma cools determines what proper...
Conduction from the core has what effect on the...
What is the measure of the amount of energy fou...
What theory explains most of the features of ea...
What part of a person with myopia is longer tha...
The anodes in each cell of a rechargeable batte...
In science, what is supported by much evidence,...
Life on earth is carbon-based. organisms need n...
A crater can usually be found on the top of wha...
Portal veins carry blood between what? pairs of...
  Viruses depend on what type of cells? host cells
Silver and ordinary table salt are two examples...
What do we call the system of classification co...
Which disease causes cells to divide out of con...
Animal cells grow mainly by synthesizing protei...
Where is the cell wall located? outside cell me...
Some protists hunt their food or act as what? p...
Name what nutrient cycling is strongly regulate...
Why must values of specific heat be looked up i...
What is the method of evolution by which advant...
Electrons move, but they aren’t destroyed. this...
What type of orbitals do electrons in successiv...
What is used as a vector for gene insertion in ...
In artificial passive immunization, which items...
What kind of solids are gummi bears or taffy? a...
In the freshwater flatworms, protonephridia ser...
What is contained in the skin of brightly color...
What is the exchange of plasmids by prokaryotes...
What do we call the study of rock layers? strat...
What are single-celled organisms that lack a nu...
The distance that light can travel in a year is...
Scientists who find and study fossils are calle...
What is it called when feces move along the col...
What is the process in which a solid changes di...
What part of the atmosphere is the heat source?...
Some mutations lead to new versions of proteins...
What is the only substance on earth that is sta...
What is the process whereby excess water and wa...
What cellular structure moves molecules between...
Alcohols can be oxidized to aldehydes or ______...
What causes a meteoroid to vaporize after it en...
  How is the radioactive decay measured? half-life
What term means a reproductive cell, like the h...
Veins are blood vessels that carry blood toward...
The spin quantum number describes the spin for ...
What fuels provide most of the energy used worl...
What instruments used in guidance systems to in...
What are the deepest places on earth? deep sea ...
While the chromosome is replicating, the cell d...
On the origin of species is a book by darwin th...
After an adaptive defense is produced against a...
Solar and wind are still expensive compared to ...
The pollen tube discharges two sperm into the f...
Steel, bronze, and brass are good examples of w...
Most hydrozoa have both polyp and what forms in...
Mammalian lungs are located in what cavity, whe...
Segmented worms have a digestive,nervous and wh...
In what route do water and solutes move along t...
Atomic orbitals are populated with what subatom...
Which law refers to the electron charge remaini...
Hotspots can be used to tell the speed and dire...
Does overhead irrigation or drip irrigation use...
Stis are diseases caused by what that spread th...
The heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood ...
Being dependent on adults for a long maturation...
What process can be triggered by a burst of eth...
What is a sac-like organ that stores urine? the...
When the pressure waves from the scala move the...
What are surface currents generally caused by? ...
What helps cells take up glucose from the blood...
What is the term for potential energy due to th...
What type of engineers influence community stru...
The atomic number defines the identity of what?...
The nuclei of radioisotopes are unstable, so th...
Parthenogenesis is the most common form of what...
What kind of fossils are excellent markers for ...
Gated ion channels have a central role in what ...
Energy that the sun and other stars release int...
Hydrogen gas is generated by the reaction of ni...
What is the top 200 meters of water in the ocea...
Zinc is what kind of metal.? active transition ...
What do decomposers release when they break dow...
Wavelengths are described by a unit of what? di...
Chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis are examples...
Which process acts as a natural complement for ...
What are the only invertebrates that can fly? i...
What is the term for the cell fragments involve...
What celestial body is often discovered because...
         What shape is the lens of the eye? convex
What is the change frogs and butterflies go thr...
What term is used to describe the attractive fo...
                  Where do archea live? everywhere
What is the 'stuff' that all things are made of...
What is the change of characteristics of living...
  What is the si unit for electric current? ampere
What abbreviated form refers to oxidation-reduc...
In a cell cycle, what kind of regulator molecul...
What are kpa, atm, and mmhg measurement units f...
Each month, starting in puberty, one egg mature...
Synostoses unite the sacral vertebrae that fuse...
What eliminates food wastes that remain after d...
What is the membrane that surrounds a fetus cal...
What is the long-term average of weather in a p...
What are the three most common elements in the ...
Cirrus, stratus, and cumulus are the main types...
Lymphatic capillaries are interlaced with the a...
What is required for communication? transmissio...
When gametes unite during fertilization, the re...
What provides an early, rapid, and nonspecific ...
In a mammal the front part of the brain is call...
What term is used to describe joints in which t...
What type of tissue is made up of cells that ha...
Recent fossil evidence has shown that the evolu...
Probability can be used to predict the chance o...
What happens to the reaction rate over the cour...
The first reported nuclear fission occurred in ...
What are temporary feet that protists have call...
Predicting the possible genotypes and phenotype...
What is a relationship between organisms that s...
What is a collection of lymphatic tissue that c...
What is the term for individuals of a species t...
Which gas moves from the blood in the capillari...
What makes the halogen group so diverse? three ...
What type of dating determines which of two fos...
The timing of events in what cycle - which last...
Is wind power renewable or non renewable? renew...
What is the principal cell of connective tissue...
What occurs when a few individuals start, or fo...
When animals use incubation, how do they genera...
What two-word term refers to the number of diff...
Two events are defined to be simultaneous if an...
The force of attraction or repulsion between ch...
What important function do bees perform on gard...
What do ecosystems require constant inputs of? ...
What is the final stage of aerobic respiration?...
           What is the lightest molecule? hydrogen
The genome of an organism consists of one or mo...
Where are free-living roundworms mainly found? ...
What do you call any force that makes something...
The two parameters used to measure changes in e...
In humans, the first sites used for energy stor...
What are electrons at the outermost energy leve...
Reaching conclusions about unobserved things on...
The molecular formula is still c 4 h 10 , which...
A structure composed of two or more types of ti...
All cells undergo what during a lifetime, but w...
Amylase and pepsin are examples of enzymes need...
What two words describe the debate over whether...
Why do comet tails always point away from the s...
What is the term for the average number of indi...
Gibbs free energy values can be used to determi...
Creep, which usually takes place where the grou...
Which parasite causes downy mildew in grape pla...
What property is defined as the magnitude or si...
Endosperm usually develops before the what does...
What is the term for geological activity that o...
What is a three-dimensional anticline called? dome
Electrical energy consumed can be expressed as ...
What is the name for a substance that can be us...
     What do osteoclasts do to bone? break it down
What do tube worms rely on for food? chemosynth...
Size is a general feature of cell structure tha...
          Altitude is height above what? sea level
Conservation of what property of ecosystems is ...
       Nearly all rocks are made of what? minerals
What type of cell division produces gametes? me...
           Where are feces formed? large intestine
What measurement of the wave is used to determi...
In a food chain, only about 10 percent of what ...
In plants, a high concentration of iaa inhibits...
The rate of heat transfer by radiation is large...
Comparisons of amino acid sequences can shed li...
How high or low a sound seems is associated wit...
Alveolar ducts and broncioles are developing pa...
During photosynthesis what organelle is used by...
Small water bodies often fed by springs are cal...
The combustion of propane gas produces carbon d...
Tremetol, a metabolic poison found in the white...
Water, carbon dioxide, and what other element a...
Deserts and forests are examples of what type o...
Lampreys use their sucker to feed on what part ...
Nonflowering vascular plants have how many basi...
Somatosensation includes all sensation received...
What is the only class of animals that has hair...
What is the muscular organ that nourishes and s...
 The smallest cyclic ether is called what? epoxide
Dialysis is a medical process of removing waste...
What is the study of how living things interact...
What is a continuous flow of electric charge ca...
How many years can dissolved carbon be stored i...
What effect causes winds and currents to form c...
What type of sunlight inhibits vertical growth ...
         Why does ice wedging occur? water expands
 Are humans a new or old species on the earth? new
What kind of surface would cause diffusion when...
What are plants called that grow where you don'...
Who proposed that everything in the universe ex...
Living organisms are comprised of organic compo...
Which mineral do native americans use to decora...
Glycolysis oxidizes glucose to two molecules of...
What's the most common disorder from having an ...
What type of respiration does not use oxygen? f...
Besides depth soundings, what else are bathymet...
A cell with two sets of chromosomes is called a...
On the ventral side of the embryonic disc, oppo...
Pairs of fish that do not practice broadcast wh...
The van allen radiation belts are two regions i...
What is the lowest level of organism that can p...
What umbrella term describes small structures t...
What is the continental margin made of? contine...
What happens to gas solubility as the temperatu...
What forms when a glacier scrapes a large hole ...
What branch of science holds hope for developin...
In eukaryotic cells, where is the dna kept? nuc...
What is a measure of the amount of space that a...
What nucleic acid stores the genetic informatio...
Molds growing on foods are a common type of wha...
What of a electromagnetic wave can be calculate...
Because of the wave character of matter, the id...
Metabolism is controlled by regulation of what?...
A catalytic converter filters pollutants in exh...
What are the two components of the ecf? plasma ...
A quarry, which produces rocks and minerals use...
Along with other organelles, all eukaryotic cel...
The environment where most chemical reactions i...
The main functions of epithelia are protection ...
What term is defined as the preserved remains o...
What rigid external structure protects shellfis...
The electronic components in electronic devices...
Vaccinations are designed to boost immunity to ...
How many sets of chromosomes do gametes contain...
What is the term for the energy of motion, whic...
Soil that forms in place over a very long perio...
Alpha and beta decay occur when a nucleus has t...
What do you call an abnormal mass of cells that...
What is an example of a biochemical lipid that ...
The rate that energy is released is known as power
A low level of radiation occurs naturally in th...
Most of the heat that enters the mesosphere com...
What is the natural movement called within your...
What does the stomach produce to help digest fo...
What type of plants have vascular tissue but do...
After ovulation occurs, the moving “fingers” of...
Alterations that change chromosome structure ar...
Membranes will become increasingly what as temp...
Catabolism and anabolism are the two types of w...
What types of incest behaviors are controlled b...
What term describes a specific statement that i...
When do female reproductive organs mature? at p...
What are the extremely small particles that com...
What are the two basic types of combustion engi...
Plasmodesmata passes through what part of plant...
    What element has an atomic number of 6? carbon
What common sea creature can be both awake and ...
What is the second stage of cellular respiratio...
As a battery is depleted what happens to its in...
What is a condition where plants are grown in m...
What is the scientific name for the human speci...
Snippet 3: the diploid cells resulting from kar...
Average speed is equal to distance divided by w...
When a supercooled liquid boils, the temperatur...
What process produces four haploid daughter cel...
What is root that does not arise from a usual p...
In which period of the periodic table is nickel...
What serves as the control center of the nervou...
What is the name for the term that describes de...
What is the measure for how fast or slow someth...
What is the term for the decayed remains of liv...
What happens when materials return to their ori...
Dna segments cross over to form what kind of ch...
Typically hard, high-melting solids that conduc...
Programmed cell death, which goes by what term,...
What elements do mafic minerals typically inclu...
During what time period did poor air quality be...
All living organisms must have what ability, in...
If a solute is a gas, increasing the temperatur...
The fetus becoming relatively large and mature ...
What item starts puberty in girls? the hypothal...
Protein digestion begins in the stomach as peps...
What lipid, added to certain foods to keep them...
What occurs in a population when its allele fre...
What do some animals use for shelter? nonliving...
In statistics a boundary on the precision and a...
          How many limbs do all mammals have? four
More common in developing countries, parasitic ...
What type of bacteria stains red? gram-negative...
The shapes of minerals form as they are broken ...
An atomic symbol is used to represent what? ele...
Mammals can feed at various levels of food chai...
What are winds that blow over a limited area ca...
Descending fibers from the cerebrum have branch...
An element is defined by the number of ____ it ...
What term is used to describe the distance trav...
Which gas is released by the group of archaea k...
Of the four main wobble base pairs, guanine is ...
The atoms of a compound are held together by wh...
Unlike energy, what happens to matter in ecosys...
The anion is the methanoate ion, which is commo...
Drinking too much water too fast can lead to wh...
When electrons move from one atom to another, t...
Another way to classify matter is to describe i...
What is the health-threatening smoke exhaled by...
Why do waves travel faster through solids? part...
What is the point on the ground that is located...
When atoms gain or lose electrons, they can for...
What do you call a pure substance that cannot b...
Natural selection can only take place if there ...
The large hadron collider is the biggest type o...
Metals, metalloids, and nonmetals are the diffe...
What holds homologs together as the spindle for...
In the periodic table, elements are arranged fr...
What is made of gases that are essential for ph...
When a stream flows from a hard to soft rock ar...
What term means taking used items and materials...
What lets different species of anole lizards li...
What are made in the first step of the scientif...
What type of organisms do not need blood? singl...
What type of plants are the mosses, the hornwar...
Wearing what will reduce the amplitude of sound...
What type of motion only occurs when there is o...
What type of energy is produced when two object...
Which form of matter assumes the shape of its c...
What type of energy is possessed by autumn leav...
  The heterotroph eats only or mainly what? plants
       All carbon atoms have how many protons? six
The cerebellum is associated with what major hu...
The kinetic energy of a moving object depends o...
Electromagnetic waves are comprised of what two...
Cranial nerves convey specific sensory informat...
Where are the viral enzyme and genome packaged ...
What would cause warm receptors to signal the h...
The direction of the force of gravity is in wha...
Sickle-cell anemia, leukemia, lymphoma, and hem...
In hypothesis-based science, specific results a...
The process by which an organism develops from ...
The development of specific structures in speci...
An experiment generates what to support a hypot...
What is the outermost occupied shell of electro...
What ear structure has three fluid filled ducts...
What is the name for elements that neither cont...
          Kinetic energy is energy of this? motion
Reproduction in prokaryotic cells is by what pr...
Why do some dry fruits split open at maturity? ...
    What is an ionic bond in nature? electrostatic
Most air masses form over what two types of reg...
Earthworms are important deposit feeders that h...
Growth, morphogenesis, and cell differentiation...
What is a fold of the outer skin lining the she...
What sciences are the study of living organisms...
Frogs are amphibians that live part of the time...
Name the missing type of friction: static, roll...
What is the study of how living organisms inter...
What are electrons lost during the formation of...
Making a specific statement based on a general ...
The earth's magnetic poles have done what repea...
What do we call the orderly sequence of events ...
What are natural resources which can be replace...
The biological electron transport chain provide...
The cells within meristems divide relatively fr...
Another unit of energy, used widely in the heal...
What are the specfic types of proteins that det...
Which layer of soil experiences the most weathe...
Osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, fractures, and sp...
What are typically arranged into complex tubula...
What is the simplest unit of structure and func...
Activities that can reduce the effects of what ...
An alloy is a mixture of metals that has bulk m...
There are two types of digestion, mechanical an...
What is the rate at which energy is being trans...
Where does the process of assembling amino acid...
    Where can you find sodium acetate? a heat pack
For a given amount of solute, do smaller partic...
What is the functional unit of compact bone? th...
Mineralocorticoids are hormones synthesized by ...
The pulmonary circulation carries blood between...
The ancient greek philosopher aristotle thought...
What are archaea that live in extremely hot env...
Warming conditions and, perhaps, human activiti...
Practical limits of van de graaff generators ar...
The remainder is transferred by contraction of ...
Chromatin condenses into chromosomes during pro...
What do plants lose the most of through the sto...
Unburned hydrocarbons can more easily be conver...
What do plasmodesmata connect to in the plant c...
What are compounds composed of only two element...
What type of gases trap heat in the atmosphere,...
What system is the brain the control center of?...
Air pollution can cause disease of what system ...
Why does the body react to a loss of chloride i...
The negatively charged electrons are attracted ...
Most of the gray matter is on the surface of th...
Cooling or evaporation of what from the sea sur...
What is the term for reproductive cells, such a...
What material is regularly used in human hip an...
What are the most dramatic, sudden, and dangero...
What current-carrying long coil of wire acts as...
In combination or synthesis reactions, two chem...
The core of a star collapses during what event,...
What is the term used for a large body of air o...
The loss of oxygen to the heart muscle causes t...
What system transports many substances to and f...
What consists of two or more elements and forms...
What is occasional chest pain known as? angina ...
In the cardiovascular system, where is the ulti...
What is the study of the energy transformations...
Love canal was an infamous example of what type...
What is a funnel-shaped cloud of whirling high ...
Why do birds need a light-weight body? to stay ...
Asthma, pneumonia, and emphysema are diseases o...
The “knee-jerk" motion that people involuntaril...
       What are tiny, hair like projections? cilia
How long does it take for the earth to make a c...
Glaciers have been melting since what period? p...
The transmission electron micrograph shows the ...
 What form does water take on the planet mars? ice
The simplest system is that of contractile vacu...
Water's very polar compound causes most solutes...
Which plant group has vascular tissue, seeds, a...
The point in front of a mirror where the reflec...
Any unused energy in food, whether it comes fro...
What helps determine the concentration of a spe...
In order to survive and maintain what state, an...
What crust is thinner and denser than continent...
What are the antibodies an animal produces afte...
How does heat travel from the sun to the earth?...
What were the first life forms found on earth s...
Steel, bronze, and brass are examples of what? ...
A pacemaker uses electrical shocks to stimulate...
What is the cloud of brown dust-like power that...
What are the cone-like structures that contain ...
What are considered to be the smallest particle...
The mechanics of dynein-based bending involve a...
       What type of creature is a scallop? mollusk
The risk of what is raised by overexposure to t...
Which artery enters the cranium through the car...
How are aquatic biomes often classified? amount...
What is the most abundant type of biological en...
What is the most diverse and abundant group of ...
What kind of hormones are secreted by organs cl...
An oxy-acetylene torch is an effective way to c...
What are the infoldings of the inner membrane c...
A channel protein is an example of what type of...
Eight of the hottest years on record have occur...
Average acceleration is the rate of change of w...
What is studied to understand gene expression p...
Ribosomes are produced in the nucleolus, and th...
Ecosystem dynamics include more than the flow o...
Muscle contraction requires repeated cycles of ...
An important chemical compound, which supplies ...
What are the glands that secrete milk in a woma...
Like a thick cap covering the brain, the dura m...
Which organisms get their energy source and car...
What natural disaster is california most linked...
Small crustaceans exchange gases across thin ar...
The superior vena cava and the inferior vena ca...
There are only four possible bases that make up...
What affects the boiling point of water? extern...
The average length of a woman’s menstrual cycle...
Water leaves ponds and lakes through evaporatio...
What is a biochemical compound that is a chain ...
Each what is made of two identical sister chrom...
Amino groups are found within amino acids, nick...
What is the name of earth’s only natural satell...
Which is the lightest of the widely used struct...
When lava flows over a large area and cools, it...
Examples of what process are evident in many bi...
What does cartilage lack compared to bones, mak...
What three forms does frozen precipitation take...
What is a stream of moving water that flows thr...
The elbow is an example of a what type of joint...
The first leaves of most ferns appear curled up...
Electrophiles have a strong tendency to react w...
What layered form of carbon is used as a lubric...
What kind of solids have particles that are arr...
During what in the small intestine do rings of ...
Acetyl-coa is formed from the breakdown of carb...
Juvenile hormone modulates the activity of what...
What causes the red color of laterite soils? ir...
The scientific process of collecting data outsi...
Red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, ...
Who created the idea of an evolutionary tree to...
What organs absorb water and nutrients from the...
What does magma that cools underground form? in...
Which season is moist, causing the most thunder...
What are the two hormones primarily responsible...
What important process takes place in specializ...
What type of plants were the first to evolve? n...
In multicellular organisms, specialized cells m...
What are accessory digestive organs critical fo...
The direction of prevailing winds determines th...
As blood glucose levels rise what is released f...
Hydrocarbons are combined with oxygen in a seri...
The validity of thought experiments, of course,...
What do you call a close relationship between t...
Generators convert mechanical energy to which k...
What is common in two eukaryotic proteins? one ...
What do you call egg-shaped galaxies, which are...
When it was found that, without the force of gr...
What can occur during periods of heavy rain? fl...
What type of energy can be used to change the p...
What equals the output power divided by the inp...
Overpopulation takes place when the number of o...
There are six fundamentally different kinds of ...
What is the only metal that is a liquid at room...
Heart valves prevent what kind of blood flow fr...
What is the source of energy for photosynthesis...
Different types of interference include destruc...
What is anything that causes cancer called? car...
In comparing two solutions of unequal solute co...
What broad group of animals - which includes ra...
What term describes a way that small molecules ...
Do most humans feed at one trophic level, or mo...
What is it called when two waves combine to cre...
What is the study of the relationship between e...
What is the term for expelling air out of the b...
The lowest resonant frequency is called the wha...
Body waves and surface waves are the two major ...
Inferior rotation occurs during limb adduction ...
The speed of an electromagnetic wave is the pro...
Electrons in inner shells are called what? core...
The binding of complementary bases allows dna m...
What are the only amphibians without legs? caec...
Plants, fungi, bacteria and archaea cells all h...
What type of interspecies relationship involves...
Which nervous system consists of all the nervou...
What do organisms use to grow and repair themse...
The afferent arterioles service about 1.3 milli...
Kyphosis, lordosis, and scoliosis are all disea...
                    What do herbivores eat? plants
What important aspect of the scientific method ...
What distant and extraordinarily energetic obje...
Which gland is an extension of the hypothalamus...
Energy often changes between potential and what...
As the prokaryotic cell size increases, what ha...
Why are seeds of a pine cone easily carried by ...
What do dendrites from the cell body recieve im...
During what are deletions and duplications espe...
What causes maple leaves to change their colors...
The cell body contains what central structure a...
What is the term for the number that describes ...
      Where do most red algae species live? oceans
What term is used for darwin's idea that in sta...
     What element is all life built around? carbon
What are seamounts that rise above the water su...
Though often regarded as the supporting cast of...
Dinosaurs filled the niches that mammals fill t...
The magnet field of earth is called what? magne...
What two types of hormones regulate mammalian r...
In addition to five classes of fish, what other...
What is the method of reproduction for echinode...
What is happening to the rate of the expansion ...
What are required when the damage from trauma o...
In addition to a vibrating electric field what ...
What type of bones serve as points of attachmen...
The presence of what stratospheric gas layer de...
The characteristic sound of a motorcycle buzzin...
What protects the scalp from ultraviolet light ...
What is the name given to the use of controlled...
Some compounds containing hydrogen are members ...
          In which organ are bile acids made liver
What is the layer of electrons that encircle th...
What is the most common way to classify stars? ...
What is a homogeneous mixture also known as? so...
Living organisms are made up of what type of ca...
What classification system was developed by a s...
The word science is derived from what latin wor...
In a model of an atom, the level with the least...
What is the process of making atp without oxyge...
What is the type of mining called when material...
Chlorine is a nonmetal and gains one electron i...
The most common mode of asexual reproduction is...
Some species of fish carry their fertilized egg...
In a chemical reaction, what, in general, comes...
What decides what may enter or leave a cell? ce...
What trophic level are secondary consumers (whi...
What type of map projection is used for small a...
What do atoms form by sharing valence electrons...
What is the process that moves particles by rol...
Alkenes react with what to form dihalides? halo...
A supervolcano that may have killed all but 10,...
The existence of the plasma membrane was identi...
Acting like drawstrings to close off the alimen...
What man-made substance tends to break down ozo...
What in saliva protects the lining of the mouth...
Which latitudes get the most energy from the su...
Extended stays in zero gravity are not healthy ...
What parts of the planet does solar energy have...
Oceans are made of a solution of what? salt and...
Although humans require it, what accounts for j...
Arachidic, stearic, and palmitic fatty acids ar...
Weather maps show storms, air masses, and what?...
       What is a pure substance called? an element
What term describes the energy of an object tha...
Evidence for the presence of what on mars makes...
What does photosynthesis allow plants to genera...
    How many low and high tides occur per day? two
What makes up most of the inside of a plant? gr...
The first living cells may have evolved around ...
What kind of relay occurs between the uterus, h...
What type of plants do not typically require de...
What is the key to the demographic transition? ...
For the nervous system to function, neurons mus...
Molecules move from an area of high concentrati...
What type of layers do animals' tissues develop...
Vectors along the same line can be what to one ...
As a cell grows, its volume increases more quic...
What is the term for an antibody that inappropr...
What type of orbit do the planets make in the s...
In which part of the ear are the vibrations amp...
What landform occurs most often along plate bou...
Which type of glaciers form several unique feat...
What are the strongest chemical bonds? covalent...
Bacteria break down the remains of digested foo...
What is the term for the process in which water...
Specialized features of populations of galápago...
In the equation for pressure, how is force expr...
The radiocarpal and midcarpal joints are respon...
Psip can be positive or negative relative to wh...
Lava erupts through long cracks in the ground, ...
What is the smallest aromatic hydrocarbon? benzene
Which type of tree loses its leaves each fall a...
Water is a versatile solvent that can dissolve ...
Cigarettes are a major source of what kind of c...
Does the force of magnetism increase or decreas...
What evolutionary concept emphasizes reproducti...
What do you call the transfer of thermal energy...
What's the term for a cyclic hydrocarbon with a...
Osmosis is driven by the imbalance of what? wat...
Chromosomes consist of what material made up of...
Are scissors simple or compound machines? compound
What type of isotopes have short half-lives and...
What is the multi-phase process in which the nu...
What are microscopic vessels with very thin, po...
    Which part of a fish helps them breathe? gills
What produces hormones referred to as thymosins...
Some of the biggest waves occur with what type ...
In many species, display behaviors, like a gori...
What are the two types of vascular tissue? xyle...
Because heterotrophs cannot make their own food...
Nucleic acids contain the information needed fo...
Unlike corals, jellyfish spend most of their li...
What are materials that eject electrons when il...
     Hfcs are used as a replacement for what? cfcs
What has the burning of fossil fuels increased ...
In humans, the sperm cell is the only cell with...
Dispersal occurs only on what time scale? evolu...
What type of feedback intensifies a change in t...
What law explains why some objects float and so...
       What is the force of gravity called? weight
The structure of the human tail bone is called ...
Of course, a net external force is needed to ca...
The oldest fossil of land plants date back how ...
What do young female meerkats act as in colonie...
Since europeans settled in the united states, a...
 What is first year after birth is called? infancy
What do you call a substance that cannot be sep...
A protective coating of zinc to prevent corrosi...
         How do bacteria reproduce? binary fission
The pituitary gland is associated with what bod...
Why is it necessary to maintain proper levels o...
Evolving from a single common ancestor, what gr...
     What two forms can fluids take? liquid or gas
What are ionic compounds that produce hydroxide...
When do end portions of two nonsister chromatid...
Through which part of the body do most animals ...
Magma can be created when temperature rises, pr...
What is the rotational equivalent of a force? t...
What happens when when the immune system does n...
What is the beneficial function to the body of ...
What type of microscope is used to see extremel...
What is the most prevalent gas in the atmospher...
Why wouldn't a teakettle have an aluminum handl...
What can help scientist gather information for ...
What do we call the region on the lung root for...
Both oxygen and glucose are transported within ...
An increase in the body's cholesterol levels ca...
After citric acid forms, it goes through a seri...
All chemical changes involve a transfer of what...
The normal response of the respiratory system t...
What part of an atom is electrically neutral? n...
Bar, circle, and line are all types of what? gr...
Unlike eukaryotic cells, dna and rna synthesis ...
What type of bacteria are sometimes used as wea...
What is the name of a joint in which one bone r...
Cirrus, stratus, and cumulus are types of what?...
What is a buildup of electric charges on object...
Where do you find the greatest biodiversity? in...
The ostwald process is the commercial method fo...
   What includes the bones and cartilage? skeleton
What type of constraints are placed on technolo...
What cycle is the second stage of cellular resp...
What phenomenon can cause a protein in an organ...
What are mid-wavelength electromagnetic waves c...
Bronchial tubes in the lungs branch into ever-s...
What can be used to accelerate the rate at whic...
Air temperature changes as what increases? alti...
What happens to energy in a closed system? is c...
  What are magnetites naturally attracted to? iron
The visceral senses are most often below the li...
The ideal gas law does not require that the pro...
Vertebrates lacking what structures often use l...
What "kind" of water may take longer to become ...
Long-term storage of what element occurs when m...
Electron configurations are a shorthand method ...
Light emitted by atoms is polychromatic—contain...
What fatty material inside arteries can restric...
 What is used to record seismic waves? seismograph
What does a solar power plant turn sunlight int...
Moving electrons have a form of kinetic energy ...
Sunlight contains many different wavelengths, w...
The study of how organisms develop is known as?...
What type of force always opposes the direction...
What kind of energy is released when the nucleu...
When did we learn there was a hole in the ozone...
What type of generators use electromagnetic ind...
In the simple cubic system, the atoms or ions a...
What are the earliest and simplest vertebrates?...
Behaviors are responses to stimuli. they can ei...
Gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria are di...
What is common in muscles that have become exha...
What is another term for the early larval stage...
The release of an egg from an ovary, is part of...
Which part of the body shows does horner's synd...
  In which way to vertebrates reproduces? sexually
What contains more calcium than any other organ...
One of the main features all vetebrates have in...
Cytoplasmic determinants are distributed how in...
What relatively new addition to and highest lev...
What is only effective if ventilation is matche...
What sprouts up on stalks from the bed of moss ...
Like all chordates, vertebrates are animals wit...
What occurs when two waves combine and cancel e...
What occurs when the crests of one wave overlap...
What system in both males and females consists ...
What type of creature is noted for having its e...
What were the first animals to have true lungs ...
What do they call 2,2,4-trimethylpentane in the...
What do we call any way that animals act, eithe...
When waves of two different frequencies interfe...
Further transformation occurs during organogene...
Each antibody can bind with just one specific t...
What kind of surface temperature is found on ve...
What type of resource is limited in supply and ...
The name of the cation comes first, followed by...
Electromagnetic radiation is a form of what? en...
What are the cells or structures that detect se...
What artificial process involves making an exac...
Deer ticks are the vectors for what disease tha...
A highway that switches back and forth as it cl...
The loss of too much blood may lead to shock of...
What is the tectonic zone called where two plat...
The mild oxidation of thiols gives compounds ca...
What is the structure in a diploid sporophyte t...
Gene expression and what else are usually consi...
Centipedes have what on their foremost trunk se...
What paired organs together receive about 25 pe...
The diversity of life on earth today is the res...
In science, coefficients are used to balance wh...
What connection is required for a newborn baby ...
How is population density expressed? number per...
Type 1 diabetes results in the pancreas not bei...
Photosynthesis produces oxygen as a byproduct, ...
Volcanoes are termed active, dormant, or extinc...
Ciliary muscles control the shape of the lens, ...
Convection in which part of the earth drives th...
Simple eyes, like the human eye, have how many ...
What are the most advanced group of seedless va...
What is a rigid layer that surrounds the plasma...
A tropism where light is the stimulus is known ...
What is transmitted that makes up the electroma...
Rust is an example of the reaction of oxygen wi...
When the sun is below the horizon and thus not ...
What term describes a drug that has an effect o...
What is the physical area where a specie lives?...
Where does most geologic activity take place? p...
What type of winds move the same way as mountai...
What is the term for the length of the route be...
An individual with down's syndrome has 47 of wh...
Where is the fruiting body normally produced in...
What is the largest of the sinuses? superior sa...
As the temperature of water decreases what happ...
Amines are weak bases due to the presence of a ...
Muscle groups are controlled by what mechanism?...
Deficiency of what mineral causes bones to beco...
What is the apparatus used for carrying out an ...
After what life stage does the fusion inside a ...
                       What color is neptune? blue
What is it called when large objects are broken...
What is the term for species in symbiotic relat...
Hemoglobin, with four polypeptide chains or sub...
What causes blood vessels to grow toward the tu...
  What is igneous rock created from? magma cooling
What is the exchange of gases between the body ...
What type of metal is a good conductor of elect...
          What is the study of ecosystems? ecology
Where do sperm go after leaving the testicles a...
What theory brings together continental drift a...
Different forms of the same element are called ...
What is the only marsupial in north america? op...
What is the generation of electricity using pho...
   What does the color of soil indicate? fertility
  What kind of charge does a neutron have? neutral
But a point mutation can also change a codon fo...
The location of an object in a frame of referen...
What kind of change causes evolution in populat...
What type of lipids contain the element phospho...
Photosynthesis requires light, water and what e...
Tropical rainforest, temperate grassland, and t...
What is described by the concentration of hydro...
Which theory states that all organisms are comp...
Light retains its original color under water be...
                   What are interferons? cytokines
What is the air that remains after a forced exh...
What is the term for a gas that completely abid...
What is required to partially overcome the attr...
Cephalochordates have a notochord and nerve cor...
Name the physicist who discovered radioactivity...
Researchers have identified the receptor protei...
What has high surface tension because of extens...
Where are sponges most likely anchored to? reef...
What do jellyfish use to startle predators? vis...
What do corals secrete that builds up to become...
What layer covers the bones that make them look...
John dalton thought that what unit, which means...
What gems are created by mollusks, such as oyst...
Extrusive igneous rocks are also called what? v...
What happened to chemical reactions when temper...
Where do living things obtain the energy to car...
What is another term for all eukaryotic organis...
Tissues of marine bony fishes gain what from th...
When magma reaches the surface through cracks i...
The peripheral nervous system consists of all t...
              Where is gabbro found? oceanic crust
Mypyramid features colored bands that represent...
Which type of diseases do antibiotics treat? ba...
What is the loss of energy available to do work...
What do you call the gently sloped ocean floor ...
What uses oxygen gas to break apart the carbon-...
Which human body system system moves nutrients ...
An elastic collision is one that conserves inte...
What term refers to an animal that sleeps durin...
What do you call a period when temperatures are...
Every object is attracted to every other object...
What begins when an oogonium with the diploid n...
What is the most abundant element in the univer...
If the electromagnetic repulsion between proton...
What disease, caused by vitamin c deficiency, c...
What type of waves are the slowest of all seism...
What are the two types of optical telescopes? r...
What can be hard or even impossible to perform ...
In contrast to mammals and birds, freshwater fi...
What is the matter through which sound waves tr...
Polygenic traits result in a distribution that ...
Since eddy currents and magnetic damping occur ...
Most plates are made up of a combination of wha...
Chromosomes further condensed in which stage? d...
What weak base is applied as an agricultural fe...
During the winter, production of what amine inv...
What is the term for the small particles that r...
Physical properties are characteristics that de...
What allows for a large and mature fetus before...
What type of bonds form only between metals and...
A system is said to be in stable equilibrium if...
What cycle completes the breakdown of glucose b...
What do we call the full range of electromagnet...
What kind of light ranges from red to violet? v...
All matter in the universe is composed of one o...
What are the smallest type of blood vessels? ca...
Athletes such as swimmers and bicyclists wear b...
During strenuous exercise our muscles perform w...
What force causes waves to topple over and brea...
What type of simple machine is a seesaw an exam...
What part of a sample can be represented by the...
Arteries have thinner wall layers and valves an...
The fetal stage begins about how long after fer...
Which is the best way to maintain a strong, fit...
Which system refers to the skin and its accesso...
Normally, only traces of protein are found in u...
What is the nickname of the best-known geyser i...
The two general types of reproduction are sexua...
Acid rain is corrosive rain caused by rainwater...
What is the net force when two forces act in th...
What hypothesis states that the biosphere is it...
The planet neptune has strange dark spots that ...
The thalamus acts as a gateway to and from what...
When describing motion, what factor is just as ...
What often relies on cooperation between the mo...
What nerves are connected to the spinal cord? s...
What source of water pollution picks up chemica...
  Where do all cells come from? pre-existing cells
What is the term for learning from past experie...
Science is the process of knowing about the nat...
What type of plant keeps it green leaves year-r...
What are reactions that can occur only in one d...
What is the diffusion of water molecules across...
What forms when there is a difference in temper...
What domain-level category of cells can contain...
What gas is released by burning of fossil fuels...
A major disturbance in what results in an episo...
Bone marrow, the thymus gland, the spleen, and ...
What term refers to the balance, or equilibrium...
Atoms of different elements can combine in simp...
What blood component serves both structural and...
What type of reproduction begins when an egg an...
     What are long chains of amino acids? proteins
What phase exists when all the water in a conta...
What do you call the movement of a substance fr...
Each myofibril is made up of two types of prote...
If the experimental value is less than the acce...
According to which process, sublevels and orbit...
The roughness of interacting surfaces and the m...
          How many types of leptons are there? six
Plants, algae and bacteria are all examples of ...
What forms after air cools below its dew point?...
In hornworts, the horns are the sporophytes tha...
What generally sets the direction that technolo...
Living things that feed on others are generally...
What is an isotope that is radioactive called? ...
What is a compound that can form ions when it d...
When using a generator, we are transforming wha...
          What kind of resource is soil? renewable
What is the term for the stalk connecting a lea...
What are the specialized cells within the brain...
What stimulates the production of milk by the m...
In vascular plants, the sporophyte generation i...
What organ system transports blood through the ...
"cardio" has become slang for what type of exer...
How many protons do all atoms of a particular e...
One of the five fundamental conservation laws i...
Copper oxide is a result of what two substances...
The process of getting oxygen into the body and...
Someone who believes something despite the evid...
Which cells continue the digestion and absorpti...
Pressure is defined as the force per unit area ...
         What do body cells use for energy? sugars
What force pulls people and objects toward the ...
The rate of decay of carbon-14 does what over t...
What behavior includes all the ways that animal...
Food chains carry energy from what group to wha...
What are professionals in technology are genera...
What force occurs whenever two surfaces come in...
The anatomy of primate eyes shows they tend to ...
What are sensory cells? specialized neurons or ...
What is it called when waves interact with othe...
      What is the ph level for pure water? ph of 7
What is vital for nervous system functions that...
The benthic zone is found at the bottom of all ...
The hydroxyl radical is highly reactive because...
Gametes swim with the aid of what structure to ...
A phospholipid is a bond between the glycerol c...
What connects the fetus to the placenta? umbili...
In desert cactus, thorns that protect the water...
What are the most common dietary lipids? trigly...
What process is the opposite of fusion and rele...
Visible light is the narrow segment of what, to...
Bromine is much less abundant than fluorine or ...
Karyotyping shows whether what structures, whic...
Real gases deviate from ideal form at high pres...
Organic substances, including proteins, carbohy...
What term describes anything that occupies spac...
When light strikes the rods and cones, they hyp...
The heart contracts rhythmically to pump what t...
What do light emitters do to what you see? add ...
A turbine using tides in the ocean can create w...
The atomic number is the same as the number of ...
What is the closed circulatory system of humans...
"red-shift" refers to a shift toward red in the...
What is the name for substances with a ph above...
The subducting oceanic plate does what as it re...
Which stage of development is a period during w...
What orifice in the body is particularly helpfu...
What subphylum, which includes crabs and crayfi...
What do neurons pass to the next neuron? neurot...
What determines which type of precipitation fal...
The main functions of what complex carbohydrate...
High consumption of saturated fats is linked to...
What does hair get its color from? melanin pigm...
What type of animal in the sea spend most of th...
Desert plants have evolved processes to conserv...
Plants, cyanobacteria, and algae are living thi...
All chemical changes involve a transfer of what...
What is the unique larval form of mollusks call...
A voltage source and a conductor are common to ...
Root systems are mainly of two types. dicots ha...
Enzymes in cellular reactions work to do what t...
Bony fish can live in either of what type of aq...
What is categorized by the forces holding the i...
What are the two main types of air pollutants? ...
The job of the nucleolus is to build what? ribo...
For many decades, scientists have known that at...
Patients with familial hypercholesterolemia hav...
What action, performed multiple times daily, is...
What is a form of mechanical energy that starts...
What's caused by damaged capillaries in the kid...
What do roots bring in from the soil into the p...
In addition to spiral cleavage, protostomes als...
What term is used to describe animals with thre...
Due to similar function, the wings of bats and ...
If the amount of force of that is applied is in...
What is the name for speed with a direction? ve...
How many types of mechanical waves are there? t...
What is required for a decay chain to end? stab...
What do you call the process that results in an...
What do voltmeters measure? voltage drop across...
Distinct from a suspension, a solution is consi...
What is the largest and most complex algae brow...
Scientists around the world study speciation, d...
How long do the long-lived isotopes require to ...
The production of light by living things is cal...
Animals that live in groups with other members ...
Teeth in the back of the mouth are used for wha...
Compared to red light, blue light has a shorter...
The most common substance on earth, water, is p...
What kind of respiration allows rapid productio...
What two forces tend to keep an animal stationa...
What are membrane-bound organelles with their o...
What kind of atomic molecule is oxygen gas? dia...
Why can't fungi make their own food like plants...
The vestibulocochlear nerve is responsible for ...
        What is an alloy of copper and tin? bronze
 What spreads sti during sexual contact? pathogens
How many amino acids are arranged like "beads o...
What do refrigerator magnets contain that make ...
When does most amphibians' parenting end? once ...
What helps an insectivorous plant attract and d...
E. coli uses how many enzymes to take up and me...
What forms as a result of decomposition when n2...
Biomass can also be processed to make what kind...
What is produced when an egg is fertilized by a...
What structures receive blood from the atria an...
What are modified leaves that bear sporangia? s...
The reverse process of moving material into a c...
Constriction and dilation allow the circulatory...
Focused on evolution, the studies of what man h...
Are cnidarians typically found in ocean or fres...
Increasing the pressure on a gas has what effec...
What type of fertilization do most reptiles hav...
The vertebrate endoskeleton is made of bone and...
What has hot days and cool nights, and are typi...
In addition to insects, what large invertebrate...
Monatomic cations have the same name as their p...
What part of the body do hookworms infest? inte...
         Parasitic leeches feed off of what? blood
The mars rover collected round clumps of crysta...
Attraction of a material by a magnet is an exam...
What phenomenon is essential in order for evolu...
The two types of glaciers are continental and w...
In dioecious animals, females generally produce...
    The cells of all protists have a what? nucleus
What type of organism causes many common diseas...
What type of current do generators in cars use?...
What is the movement of plates called? plate te...
Name a carbonyl in which the carbon atom is bon...
The color of an object is determined by the wha...
The process in which dna is copied is called wh...
What type of seismic waves do the most damage? ...
Which continent is the only one that reptiles d...
What is responsible for the foul smell of ranci...
The carbon cycle can be thought of in terms of ...
What is the term for the green pigment in leave...
Evolutionary adaptation is evidenced by differe...
Amino acids contain both a carboxylic acid grou...
   What is an alloy of both tin and copper? bronze
What is the option to remove kidney stones othe...
What does a theory need to be supported by? man...
What happens when antibodies are transferred to...
What is the name for electrons closer to the nu...
      Which acid releases nitrates into soil? uric
What instrument made it possible to study press...
What asymmetrical organ has four chambers and, ...
Geiger counters can be used to detect what, in ...
What term is used to describe the energy of mat...
What do you call the illness that occurs when h...
Herbivores and omnivores have longer alimentary...
                 What do tadpoles turn into? frogs
The heat capacity of an object depends on its c...
Human skin color is primarily due to the presen...
What is pollution that enters water at just one...
The various sensory organs are part of what org...
Down syndrome is caused by having three copies ...
What kind of weathering changes the size of a m...
What do waves do when they are unable to pass t...
What is used to date older fossils? radioactive...
What external feature in human beings is respon...
What branch of science is the study of human or...
Skeletal muscle cells and cardiac muscle cells ...
Latitude affects the amount of what received by...
What do you call an abnormal mass formed when c...
What layer is below the lithosphere and in the ...
What are lipopolysaccharide components of the o...
In aquatic communities, the main producers are ...
How does the liquid in a thermometer respond to...
In most fish, where does the embryo develop in ...
What is the name of the life stage when a child...
Cytokinesis divides what part of the cell into ...
What is it called when a liquid displays more a...
In what type of mining must tunnels be blasted ...
What kind of energy is released when the thermo...
Like the mitochondria, chloroplasts have their ...
While normal light microscopes can magnify obje...
What kind of energy does pyruvate have a lot of...
What type of landscape has grasslands with scat...
What may be lost when waves travel through matt...
      Where does mechanical digestion begin? mouth
  How does the sun generate energy? nuclear fusion
What stored form of energy is made up of glycer...
What do jellyfish give off to startle possible ...
 What is an example of a metaloid element? silicon
Scientists use a quantity called __________ as ...
Niche refers to the role a species plays in wha...
An irreversible increase in size is known as? g...
Bacterial contamination of foods can lead to di...
All combustion reactions are what type of react...
What produces microspores that develop into pol...
When a star's core collapses inward while the o...
Timber, obtained from trees that can be replant...
What type of blood does the right side of the h...
What elements have the highest attraction for e...
What is the layman's term for mammals raising t...
What are ring-shaped hydrocarbons called? cycli...
What increases in processes in which solid or l...
       How many pairs of legs do arachnids have? 4
Besides the uppermost mantle, what else is the ...
What is another term for dry ice? solid carbon ...
Name the process that produces many copies of a...
Rupture or blockage of arteries in the head is ...
What type of lines run next to each other? cont...
What type of light sensing organs do scaophopod...
What kind of cleavage do mammalian eggs exhibit...
What is the name of the process for delivering ...
What is the process in which a liquid boils and...
What are the two most common common ways that b...
What is the largest planet in the solar system?...
What are elements required in very small amount...
What can be calculated by multiplying an object...
What will happen to a rock when it's under trem...
Very large stars eventually become what extreme...
Which theory suggests plant species richness in...
What state of hydrogen can be predicted based o...
What occurs when there is little to no rain in ...
At any specific time, the rate at which a react...
The skin is a familiar organ made of what kind ...
Evolution that occurs over a short period of ti...
What do osteoblasts secrete that mineralizes to...
Atoms that have gained electrons and become neg...
      Snakes are which type of animal? carnivorous
Cancer occurs most often in adults over what ag...
Mammals are either herbivores, carnivores or wh...
What paired human organs play a vital role in m...
What is the process in which glucose is made us...
What zone is outside the radiative zone? convec...
What do you call the temperature at which a liq...
The distinctive appearance of what tissue is du...
In the humid subtropical climate, summers are _...
What are found primarily in lines around the ed...
What is another name for trisomy 21? down syndrome
Which part of the brain regulates the rate of b...
Light with the longest wavelengths is called wh...
Which gas do people exhale during each breath? ...
Nonvascular plants such as liverworts, hornwort...
Much of the iron produced is refined and conver...
What can be formed by converging light rays beh...
What is the star-like structure inside the para...
What is the study of the chemical elements nece...
Both alpha and beta decay change the number of ...
What types of living things are divided into no...
What can exposure to chemical or biological age...
What direction are sediments deposited? horizon...
When the air temperature reaches the dew point,...
What do you call the metal elements listed belo...
Each silicon atom shares how many valence elect...
What is produced by the reaction of metal oxide...
Which type of weathering causes changes int he ...
What type of rocks form from sediments that are...
What is the common term for solid carbon dioxid...
What is the most common type of joint in the hu...
What kind of relationship exists between living...
Latitude plays an important role in determining...
A very small artery that leads to a capillary i...
What kind of systems use fluid to transmit pres...
What organ interprets what our sensory organs s...
Gametes are products through meiosis in which o...
Haumea, which is the third brightest kuiper bel...
A changing magnetic field produces an electric ...
What do plants do to prevent water loss at nigh...
What term describes a colloidal dispersion of a...
What evidence is there that mt. everest was onc...
Because atoms have equal numbers of positive pr...
What is the term for interactions between indiv...
Plane mirrors work because the light rays creat...
What do we call natural resources that are rema...
What is the process of breaking down food into ...
What controls what moves inside and outside the...
Yeasts are single-celled fungi. about 1,000 spe...
Another measure of the effectiveness of a machi...
What are biofilms resistant to many common form...
Fractures and faults are terms you hear when ta...
What are resources that can not be remade, or w...
Alkenes with the same atoms but different shape...
Which of the animals digest cellulose with the ...
What is the major source of warmth for earth? t...
Like a runner passing a baton, the transmission...
Which organ is the control center of the nervou...
Continental climates are generally found in wha...
           What mainly gives the body energy? food
A mineral can be made of an element or a? compound
Herbivores are heterotrophs that eat only or ma...
The heart is an organ in which system? circulat...
What are the subatomic particles of the nucleus...
Who wrote the book, on the origin of species? d...
Tar sands are rocky materials mixed with what? ...
A current in a circuit needs a complete what? path
How do glucose, ions, and other larger molecule...
The basal forebrain contains what that are impo...
What thin layer of air acts as a barrier to pre...
       What is the name for the male gamete? sperm
The strength of acids is measured on what scale...
What term is also known as the contact activati...
What comprises the contents of a cell between t...
What is used to convert concentrations to colli...
The ovules, which are the female gametophytes, ...
Snippet 2: one of the reasons the periodic tabl...
Equilibriums are affected by changes in concent...
What type of seed-bearing structure of a flower...
What are ionic substances completely held toget...
What word do get from the arabic al-qili, meani...
Metals are elements that can conduct what? elec...
The earth is like organisms in that it maintain...
The purpose of any cooling system is to transfe...
         What is the heart's main task? pump blood
Which antibacterial protein is found in tears a...
        What elements tend to conduct well? metals
What type of masses are structureless particles...
What do scientists use to search other planets ...
All species of crocodilians have similar body s...
During adulthood, what is needed for the produc...
What are solid lipids that animals use to store...
What in science are very important so that we c...
What substances in a car battery can be melted ...
Unlike a crystalline solid, an amorphous solid ...
Many carbohydrates can enter glycolysis, most o...
If a quantity of a reactant remains unconsumed ...
Name the one metal that melts below room temper...
The way a mineral cleaves or fractures depends ...
Ultimately, most life forms get their energy fr...
What was diorite commonly used for in ancient c...
Aquatic biomes in the ocean are called what? ma...
When an ionic compound dissociates in water, wa...
What device is used to measure temperature? the...
What has the smallest, lightest atoms of all th...
If two populations do not mate and produce fert...
What system includes the brain and the spinal c...
Light is produced when charged particles do wha...
 Respiration rate correlates with what? energy use
What is the only commercial way of reproducing ...
Birds adapted wings and weathers for flight dur...
Which factor ruins renewable resources like soi...
How does the solubility of gases in liquids cha...
         What are all living things made of? cells
Where does the nucleus store chromatin ? nucleo...
What do the liver, gallbladder, and pancreas co...
What are all tissues external to the vascular c...
Spirals, spheres, and rods are examples of what...
The goal of homeostasis is the maintenance of w...
What type of energy of a system is the sum of t...
Primary batteries are single-use batteries beca...
Layers of fat are formed by what type of tissue...
Basidiomycetes do what to wood and other plant ...
Pathogens infect many animals and are agents of...
Sediments in oligotrophic lakes contain large a...
What tides occur during the new moon and full m...
In passive transport, small molecules or ions m...
Some bacteria also have tail-like structures ca...
People with which skin type run a greater risk ...
What happens to temperature in the troposphere ...
The kidneys help control acid-base balance by e...
    What does the geiger counter detect? radiation
Mollusks such as squid and octopi, which must h...
Which direction from the source do pollutants i...
What type of activity in the brain causes epile...
What does a healthy immune system fight off? in...
Groundwater dissolves minerals and rocks into w...
What is the term for a certain form of matter t...
Bacteria are responsible for many types of what...
Humans and other animals can suffer from diets ...
The size and symmetry of a beetle’s or an elk’s...
How is blood supplied from the mother to the fe...
How long does membrane depoloriazation typicall...
What are the three types of mixtures? solutions...
Double strands of what wrap around histone prot...
What is the process when animals maintain an in...
Both androgen secretion and spermatogenesis occ...
  Where does the process of digestion start? mouth
As distance from the source increases, the area...
Mountain ranges, plateaus, and plains are featu...
How many pathogens can each droplet contain? th...
The ability to change color, separately mobile ...
What is the other name of newton’s first law? l...
The velocity at the beginning of the time inter...
In which sphere of the atmosphere do the northe...
What carbohydrate from fruit juices is a gel-fo...
Warm water from the equator mixes with cold wat...
A single amino acid substitution in hemoglobin ...
Why does the heating element of a toaster get h...
What is the industrial chemical produced in gre...
What term is used to describe a protein that ac...
What is the transfer of energy by waves called?...
What are the the individual protein subunits ma...
The eukaryotic cell cycle is regulated by a wha...
How many identical daughter cells are created a...
Which disease does the bacteria salmonella caus...
What term describes the application of knowledg...
What surrounds the lungs in a thoracic cavity? ...
When lactose is absent, a repressor protein bin...
The four moons of jupiter are collectively name...
What is the term for the distance between two c...
Which instruments are used to measure the angle...
What is the term for matter that does not let a...
Gain or loss of what causes an atom to become a...
The electrochemical potential across a membrane...
Nucleic acids are polymers made of monomers cal...
Antibodies also mark pathogens for destruction ...
What are small organelles and are the site of p...
What term is defined as the ability to locate o...
Ringworm and athlete’s foot are common human di...
Vertical layering is an important feature of th...
  What do many cells depend on glucose for? energy
When continental crust is pulled apart, it brea...
What body part boasts three articulations and i...
The physical properties of gases are predictabl...
What is the disease where some alveoli of the l...
The primary function of leaves is to collect su...
In which type of reaction are compounds formed?...
For feeding, the head contains one pair of mand...
What term given to animals like reptiles is a s...
What forms in the ocean from the seafloor sprea...
What does ozone in the stratosphere protect us ...
            What is the basic unit of matter? atom
What is the name of the protein that is found i...
When fuel is burned most of the energy is relea...
A change in one or more physical properties of ...
Particles with what type of electric charges at...
Avoiding carcinogens helps lower the risk of wh...
What is the mechanism that accounts for the dri...
In a dehydration reaction, what is removed as t...
What is the smallest unit of structure and func...
The dual character is critical for the formatio...
  In humans, a zygote has how many chromosomes? 46
The elements are arranged in rows, each represe...
The water cycle is powered by energy from where...
When lactose is present in the cell, what allow...
What class of animals, translated as “head foot...
What can be calculated by solving the average s...
Transverse divisions are associated with leaf e...
Of the four nerve plexuses, two are found at th...
When does sublimation occur? when the ice and s...
What organism is responsible for most decomposi...
Cancer of the testes is most common in males be...
Prions are slow-acting, virtually indestructibl...
What does the male reproductive system consist ...
What causes genetic disorders in humans? altera...
What can lead to a loss of genetic variation wi...
Four electron groups orient themselves into wha...
The primary hormones derived from lipids are wh...
 What are most metal objects made of? metal alloys
What law explains how the change in direction o...
What limits the growth or development of an org...
The primary application of biotechnology is in ...
In naming ternary compounds, which type of part...
The pollen grain absorbs water and does what af...
What term refers to change in position over tim...
Ice ages, continental drift, and giant meteorit...
What can all living things sense and respond to...
What do we call use of electric current to enco...
How many additional pairs of appendages do arac...
Melting points are temperatures that are high e...
Strong, stable bonds between carbon atoms produ...
What are the blood vessels that carry blood tow...
What is a measure of the amount of space a subs...
Potassium, calcium, and magnesium are considere...
What normally prevent a positively charged part...
Sometimes two or more distinct phenotypes can e...
Management programs based on population-regulat...
What basic plant structure is the site of photo...
What provides the identities of the reactants a...
        What process creates sperm? spermatogensis
Both fluorine and lithium are highly reactive e...
Earth acts like a giant version of what device,...
Ovulation takes place in what organ and is part...
Instead of a nervous system, plant responses ar...
Asexual reproduction occurs by what process? bu...
What do all respiratory diseases affect? gas ex...
What is one trait that the sponge and tarantula...
What bonds form when pairs of electrons are sha...
Hydrocarbons in which all carbons are connected...
What occurs when two wave crests overlap? const...
The length of a rectangular surface multiplied ...
What is the testing for disease in a fetus or e...
The two adrenal glands are glands located just ...
What is the term for the number of waves that p...
The migration of what familiar coastal landform...
The procedure known as angioplasty is used when...
What type of maps detail detail the types and l...
    What is another term for the voice box? larynx
The proximity of the axillary buds to the apica...
How do the vast majority of fish reproduce? sex...
What is the quantity of force multiplied by the...
Diphenylamine acts as a stabilizer for certain ...
Behind the pupil, a single lens focuses light o...
Why is the root cap continuously replaced in pl...
Aquatic biomes are determined mainly by distanc...
Who is said to have dropped two objects of diff...
What determines the length and thickness of dna...
What type of gas is used to fill glass tubes of...
       What does fog consist of? droplets of water
Spiders use the hydrostatic pressure generated ...
The normal respiratory rate per minute in adult...
Where is glycogen created and stored in the bod...
When we neutralize a weak base with a strong ac...
         What is the main component of milk? water
Stomata are the main avenues of transpiration, ...
What is a form of matter that has a definite sh...
What type of energy is stored in the nuclei of ...
Providing evidence of their ancestry, some spec...
What happens when more glucose is present than ...
What are most protist diseases in humans caused...
Transporting blood is the main job of the heart...
What occurs when the amount of solute dissolved...
    What are cyclins made up of? group of proteins
What do ferns use in place of seeds to reproduc...
Water affects the availability of what importan...
Fuels according to the law of what, can never a...
The ability of matter to burn is called? flamma...
Uncontrolled cell growth can lead to tumors and...
Video and audio signals are broadcast on these?...
In a tropical rainforest, where are ferns commo...
Which metalloids are found in the nitrogen grou...
What kind of family is haumea part of? a collis...
    The db gene encodes the which receptor? leptin
    How many main types of diabetes are there? two
What organ is similar to a lymph node but is mu...
What is the process of converting atmospheric n...
Phospholipids and some proteins move laterally ...
What changes encoded waves which are being broa...
When the oval window vibrates, it causes what e...
When changes in the genes of a species result i...
What happens if a person doesn’t take in enough...
How does the atomic number change during beta e...
What is the most widely distributed organism ar...
On a topographic map, what is the term for a li...
Where does the stratosphere get most of its hea...
What source of ocean pollution kills animals by...
          What is the name of pluto's moon? charon
What type of bond generally forms between a met...
What's the name for an atom that has gained or ...
Light is scattered from what in our atmosphere?...
What refers to the union of a male and female o...
Tree sap enclosing an organism in amber or an o...
Which theory states that the characteristics of...
What does the secondary oocyte have the most of...
Kangaroos, koala and opossums are part of what ...
What term refers to a group of individuals of t...
What larger theory is einstein's equation part ...
Low yields of nitric oxide, no, form when heati...
Scientists that study dolphins and other life i...
What is the scientific term for the act of eati...
The collision of what is responsible for massiv...
Proteins are one of four classes of what type o...
What is the term for a fold that arches upward?...
Under certain conditions, electric current caus...
What is the most complex organ in the human bod...
What is a soft connective tissue inside pores a...
What is another term for chemical messenger mol...
The alimentary canal is associated with what or...
Which organisms capture light energy and conver...
Specific scents are often associated with what?...
Microwave ovens use radiation to provide food w...
What are usually planted in rows with bare soil...
Name the type of system that a jellyfish does n...
Because plants are relatively immobile, they ca...
          How do invertebrates reproduce? sexually
The process of transferring pollen from the mal...
What do you call catalysts that are found insid...
Energy from sunlight is absorbed by what pigmen...
Surface tension forces between moleculse cause ...
What term refers to the breaking stress that wi...
In great apes, what process lasts 8-9 months an...
Plants can reproduce sexually and in which othe...
Earth is the only planet in the solar system th...
Although individuals of a given species are gen...
The following definition relates to which term:...
Pauropods, presumed relatives of millipedes usu...
The frequency of a wave is the reciprocal of wh...
People with type o blood are often called what?...
Chemical changes occur because of what? chemica...
Low-level exposure of humans to radiation can c...
What are the nonliving parts of ecosystems like...
A mixture of a metal with one or more other ele...
What is a small protein that helps fight infect...
What type of scientists study the effects peopl...
What do you call the diffusion of solutes throu...
Like bacteria, archaea can have what to assist ...
What kind of mutations are produced by nucleoti...
A form of carbon in which carbon atoms are arra...
The two complementary strands of what are separ...
Things that are hydrophobic repel or otherwise ...
Arteries and veins are two of the three types o...
What basic structure holds plants upright, bear...
What kind of parasites are nearly all ticks tha...
What results when birth rates fall even lower t...
How do hydrogen bonds help ions and other polar...
What two things determine how much kinetic ener...
What are the pores in plants that keep certain ...
What is the disease in which bronchioles in the...
E. histolytica causes what kind of dysentery? a...
What is a copy of an image formed by reflection...
What term refers to the union of a male and fem...
What bodily function do the triceps help perfor...
What properties describe the existence of matte...
Which phylum are all vertebrate organisms a mem...
What property of matter is defined as the abili...
What do nearly all nonsense mutations lead to ?...
What cannot be created or destroyed in a chemic...
When the energy of the earthquake reaches shore...
Which muscle is broad, triangular and located o...
What do organisms need to speed up biochemical ...
The properties of cyclic hydrocarbons are gener...
What collect data on the land and sea in regard...
What is a form of matter that has a definite vo...
What is stored and concentrated in the gallblad...
What is the first step towards wound repair? cl...
Noble gases are monatomic because they only con...
Genetic variation helps ensure that some organi...
Earth’s magnetic north and south poles are not ...
Push or pull acting on an object is also called...
What colors in a neon sign represent real neon?...
What kind of waves consist of vibrating electri...
When do weather balloons return to earth? when ...
What is the addition of oxygen to a molecule or...
          Hair and nails are made of what? keratin
What radiation, generally produced by thermal m...
Lactose intolerance is a condition characterize...
What is the name of the liquid component of a s...
What type of tissue consists of cells that cove...
Where is the site of photosynthesis? the chloro...
What can be identified as an element, a compoun...
Vaccination is the process of exposing a person...
What is the layer above the troposphere? strato...
The calvin cycle and light reactions are the tw...
Untreated chlamydia can lead to pelvic inflamma...
What feature of the land do contour lines show?...
By what process does the haploid gametophyte pr...
Where do carrier proteins carry ions or molecul...
Among vertebrates, what broad category of anima...
What is the first step of the calvin cycle call...
What harmful substance must not be drained into...
What is the special name given to the diffusion...
What happens to the electrical conductivity of ...
Most bird species display this behavior, meanin...
Many pathogens spread by droplets in the air. d...
Chemical reactions that consume energy are call...
What do most organisms eat in the profundal zon...
The variation in a sample can be represented by...
A protein’s shape is determined, most fundament...
What are the 3 types of tissues that modern pla...
Tropomyosin is a type of what, that winds aroun...
Which group of the periodic table consists of h...
What helps frogs swim during the tadpole phase?...
What kind of radiation can be used to disrupt t...
The adult cells that form the butterfly begin g...
What is the simplest type of carbon-based compo...
What kinds of cells that are important to our p...
Dengue fever and yellow fever are examples of d...
The geologic time scale is divided into eons, e...
What molecule is used for most energy functions...
Which part of the nephron collects wastes in th...
What kind of behavior occurs only after experie...
The right side of the heart collects what type ...
Hot material from near the sun’s center rises i...
The presence of what in leaf cells makes most l...
What is the name of the project concerning gene...
Wind is one method for dispersal of what, ensur...
Most ecosystems are disturbed too often to atta...
What kind of diet is typical for raptors, such ...
The most basic division of land plants is betwe...
What do vaccines produce to combat viral diseas...
Internal functions are coordinated and regulate...
What is a long, tube-shaped bundle of neurons, ...
   What does the kelvin scale measure? temperature
Ash that enters the air naturally as a result o...
What happens when an increase in temperature of...
Which reaction between alkyl halides and ammoni...
Genes are organized to make the control of gene...
Which phylum is made up of segmented worms such...
What is the transfer of thermal energy between ...
What functional units of chromosomes determine ...
Aside from light, incandescent light bulbs also...
What is an alpha particle with two protons and ...
Just as the reaction of a diol and a diacid for...
Structural rearrangements of what include parti...
The e. coli chromosome, like many other bacteri...
What is the force of attraction between two mas...
Chordates include vertebrates and invertebrates...
Nearly how many millions of people die yearly d...
What instrument is used to record the length an...
Skeletal muscles must work in pairs to move bon...
What type of molecules are secreted by the cell...
Pulmonary ventilation in mammals occurs via wha...
Chemical signals are received by the target cel...
What kind of organisms are prokaryotes? single-...
What act like filters and remove pathogens from...
What are the primary cells of adaptive immune r...
What term refers to the friction of fluid, with...
What do you call a unique substance formed when...
Caves form over time when what causes rocks lik...
Cycloalkanes are hydrocarbons whose molecules a...
Speciation, convergent evolution, and coevoluti...
In what state do ionic compounds best conduct e...
What type of protein fibers in the cytoskeleton...
Which layer of the earth is molten? the outer core
What is the general name for a solid material t...
In a photosystem, pigments in the light-harvest...
What branch of science is the study of matter a...
What make us sick when they become human parasi...
The tendency of an object to resist a change in...
Contributing to the blood-brain barrier is one ...
During the condensation reaction of sugars what...
What develops into embryos inside seeds, from w...
A change in temperature with distance is called...
What sac, which was sitting on top of the flat ...
Catecholamines are a class of amine hormones sy...
Regulation of hormone production hormone levels...
Androgen secretion and sperm production are bot...
The sum of the superscripts in an electron conf...
What part of the brain controls body position, ...
When light transfers its energy to objects, thi...
What do most amphibians breathe with as larvae?...
The chemical used by the ants to weed their gar...
A common age-related bone disease in which bone...
Some fruit, like peaches, only have one big see...
Dragonflies were one of the first insects to do...
Intestinal cells combine with proteins to creat...
Dutch elm trees used to be common, beautiful tr...
Two major types of fungus-like protists are sli...
What are broken down during digestion to provid...
A group of atoms that results when one hydrogen...
What is the term for stored energy that an obje...
What force is greater on rougher surfaces than ...
Nitrogen is a very important element to living ...
In the mouth, enzymes present in what begin to ...
Unlike the cells of plants and fungi, animal ce...
Because alkali metals are so reactive, they are...
What is the plane that divides the body or an o...
What are the organs work together to allow us t...
The brain develops from this early tube structu...
Biotechnology uses what to solve problems? biology
What are hurricanes called in the pacific? typh...
What is the organ in which gas exchanges take p...
What branch of science deals with the effects p...
Sickle cell anemia is what type of disorder? au...
Which region is just posterior to the mouth? th...
What is the collective travel of sheep known as...
What are these examples of: a person riding a c...
Elements below the second period, such as silic...
Through what method or methods of fertilization...
The distance between corresponding points of ad...
Which system consists of all the nervous tissue...
What mechanism is used by living organisms to p...
The third line of defense of the immune system ...
What's it called when gases turn back into liqu...
 What is a molecule made up of two subunits? dimer
The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood...
All of the living things in an area and the non...
What areas of the planet are most birds native ...
What is the basis of enzyme classification? rea...
Scientists use the principles of what to make p...
How many membranes form the mitochondrion struc...
Lava that enters the water is called what? pill...
What do we call plants that shed their leaves s...
What do some animals use to get a feel for thei...
Gas particles are constantly colliding with eac...
How do birds learn to avoid eating monarch butt...
What part of the sperm contains the genetic mat...
Multiple sclerosis, huntington’s disease, and p...
The force that blood exerts upon the walls of t...
What is the term for the amount of internal ene...
An aquifer is an underground layer of rock that...
Oysters require a certain minimum population de...
Rubber is an example of what type of substances...
What gland is located in the neck, where it wra...
What is influences the inhibition of axillary b...
The colorless, odorless gas released when we br...
How are bacteria cells similar to our cells? dn...
What kind of health problem can occur in the ki...
What can alkenes and alkynes be reduced with to...
The vapor pressures of various liquids depends ...
What is the term for a structure within the cyt...
The two members of a given pair of chromosomes ...
What type of organism is used to produce alcoho...
On top of the otolithic membrane is a layer of ...
What do we call the locations where electrons a...
What makes up the central nervous system? brain...
Obligate anaerobes live and grow in the absence...
What is the common term for single-celled fungi...
What process allows particles too large to move...
Conducting wires have a small degree of what? e...
What allowed life to expand and diversify durin...
What do you call the fast-moving air currents h...
What describes a close and long-term interactio...
Rudolf virchow developed the hypothesis that ce...
Because they have free electrons, metals are ab...
What are oil in folded layers of rock called? a...
Lymph vessels are like blood vessels, except th...
During the first several weeks of development, ...
Which type of joints do not allow any movement ...
What type of waves carry energy through matter ...
What happens when water is removed from the end...
What is the term for the intentional release or...
Two important types of waves include longitudin...
The motion of stars in galaxies imply that ther...
Polymers, ceramics, adhesives, coatings, and li...
What does the urethra do? carries urine and spe...
What is the term used to measure the intensity ...
What can be thought of as the most biologically...
What is the scientific term for farsightedness?...
During fetal development of the heart, what doe...
A more crucial use of rc circuits for timing pu...
What causes earthquakes at mid-ocean ridges to ...
Most geological activity takes place where? at ...
What do we call the amount of time it will take...
What are organisms that depend on other living ...
Which part of the nerve cell helps transmit ner...
Mount kilimanjaro has ________ climates at the ...
What physical process occurs when large chunks ...
What is the term for the early growth and devel...
Elements are either metals, nonmetals, or what?...
Shield volcanoes often form along which locatio...
What is the study of the vital statistics of po...
Compared to free-floating bacteria, bacteria in...
What type of energy travels in waves across spa...
If an elephant and a boy are falling towards th...
Designed to support the weight of the upper bod...
Of all the electromagnetic waves, which have th...
What do you call reversible changes that do not...
Free atoms are spherical in shape, so the relat...
What types of energy is released during a chemi...
What is the most common type of organic compoun...
Hormones, ions, and neurotransmitters are all t...
What explains why water molecules tend to stick...
The maturing follicle, containing a fluid-fille...
Storm surge is very high water located in the l...
What is a waste product from fossil fuel burnin...
Carbon dioxide is an example of a material that...
What is the term for daily cycles of behavior, ...
                      What organ senses sound? ear
The total energy assimilated by an ecosystem in...
Class bivalvia (“two shells”) includes clams, o...
       When does a caldera form? after an eruption
The mass lost in mass defect has gone into ener...
What is used for the fermentation process that ...
Plant viruses can seriously disrupt crop growth...
In the past, biologists grouped living organism...
What kind of joints allow for a wide range of f...
The human body wants to maintain equilibrium or...
Natural gas, such as those burned by gas stoves...
Which is the process through which leaves colle...
What model describes the structure of the plasm...
The hot liquid rock on the surface is called wh...
The first consumption of breast milk or formula...
       Clouds are formed from what? water droplets
After spermatids form, they move where to matur...
Matter can exist either as a pure substance or ...
What is the separation of compounds on the basi...
Triploblasts include a broad range of animals, ...
What is the release of particles and/or energy ...
Through which process do behaviors that improve...
Enzymes - proteins which speed up what? chemica...
What do you call the sudden flow of mud down a ...
What causes acid rain, ozone depletion, and glo...
The amniotes are distinguished from amphibians ...
The cells of what basic plant structure lack ch...
What muscle in the chest helps inflate and defl...
Where in the lungs does gas exchange between th...
What are hollow cylinders and are the thickest ...
What simple sugar is the cell's primary source ...
What is the approximate population on the earth...
A change in the sequence of bases in dna or rna...
What is the product of microfilament movement p...
What is a measure of how much energy is needed ...
What is the common term for animals in the phyl...
What term is used to describe a change in the c...
What can accept a wide range of carbohydrates f...
What includes all living things within all thei...
What is unique and found in all living things b...
          What kind of rock is gypsum? sedimentary
What component of a prokaryote is unique in mol...
The sum of the masses of the atoms in the formu...
What size of ring will a summer drought cause i...
What is the technical term for species that pro...
What is the transparent outer covering of the e...
Photoreceptors in each ocellus receive light on...
What helps form the walls of internal organs su...
  How many valence electrons does helium have? two
What is continuously changing within a circuit ...
What is made and stored primarily in the cells ...
Electromagnetic waves vary in wavelength and in...
In the case of transverse waves, the movement o...
Inserting an extra plane of atoms into a crysta...
The core of a nuclear reactor generates a large...
Electric current is measured in coulombs per se...
What is the name of the "point" that refers to ...
Body plans do provide a succinct way to compare...
Once classified as plants, fungi have chitin ra...
What type of oceans are hostile to algae and cy...
Organelles whose membranes are specialized for ...
The regions of a material where the north and s...
What is another term for body chromosomes? auto...
Unlike amphibians, reptiles do not have what st...
What basic plant structure can add support and ...
Locus refers to the position of what on a chrom...
Fish hatch into larvae that are different from ...
What kind of islands provide natural protection...
Fruit-eating bats receive food from plants and,...
What is determined by the amount of energy in m...
 Biomass is the mass of biological what? organisms
The primary nitrogenous waste material secreted...
What system makes sure leaked blood returns bac...
Enthalpy changes are measured by using what? ca...
  The cell walls of fungi are made of what? chitin
When blood engorged capillaries leak fluid into...
                 Will contour lines ever cross? no
Species of organisms that have permanently died...
Are the majority of archaea chemotrophs or phot...
Oxygen is essentially just a waste product of t...
What is the process by which almost all plants ...
Some enzymes require the presence of a non-prot...
What stimulates the changes of pubery? sex horm...
What are the male reproductive cells called? sperm
What is one function of the nervous system in h...
What is the diversity of living things called? ...
What kind of mammalian reproduction is risky fo...
What do we call the force of attraction or repu...
Mendeleev organized what basic units into rows ...
What do you call compounds that have covalent b...
What is the term for magma that erupts onto ear...
What changes nitrogen gas from the atmosphere t...
In vertebrates, ovipary, ovovivipary, and vivip...
What waves do radio and television use? radio w...
Which factor causes a cannon ball to move horiz...
What do electrons lose during their transfer fr...
What are plastids that contain other pigments? ...
Each species of legume is associated with a str...
Algae convert energy from the sun into food by ...
Which process helps provide cleaner water for a...
What element is an essential part of many molec...
An atom is the smallest unit of what that maint...
When a solution freezes, only what particles co...
Liquefaction ccurs when the molecules of a gas ...
What is the term for the series of life stages ...
What is absorbed from food waste in the large i...
What do hydrocarbons consist of? carbon and hyd...
A major diversification of what animal group oc...
Like a house, your body has what kind of mechan...
An isometric type of what occurs as the muscle ...
What are important coenzymes or precursors of c...
What have cell-surface antigen receptors for fo...
In birds, modified front legs are actually what...
The number of waves that pass a fixed point in ...
How does litmus paper indicate the ph value of ...
 What is another term for movable joints? synovial
What device is a magnetic disc that provides lo...
Debroglie proposed in 1924 that any object exhi...
What travels at the interface between the sea s...
What is the only light that humans can see? vis...
What directs the amino acids to be introduced i...
Cellular respiration in humans involves the com...
What still causes fatal lung disease in nonsmok...
Like ants and termites, they grow fungi inside ...
For fertilization to occur in angiosperms, poll...
Exothermic reactions in organisms are called wh...
Prior to birth, the lungs are filled with amnio...
At what point during a chemical reaction is the...
The solution with the higher solute concentrati...
The three stages of transcription are initiatio...
A rounded hollow carved in the side of a mounta...
              Where do most cnidarians live? ocean
What do a group of cells that work together for...
Plants alternate between haploid and what? diploid
Temperature is a measure of the motion (kinetic...
What method do scientists use to answer questio...
What is the natural selection that favors altru...
When a male directly deposits sperm in a female...
What part of the body does the mycobacterium tu...
Conversely, very large forces are created by li...
What helps regulate the production of urine? th...
In celsius, what is the temperature at which wa...
Which theory explains how materials can collide...
What 3 types of friction occur between solid su...
Name the 3 ocean zones. intertidal, pelagic, be...
Secondary consumers are usually carnivores that...
What is the term for a period when temperatures...
Cody's velocity is zero so therefore he doesn't...
Human population is growing exponentially and h...
Amides are carbonyls attached to one nitrogen a...
The epidermis of the leaf consists of a single ...
What is beneath the cerebrum and includes the t...
What is the raw material for evolution by natur...
The changing of a light ray’s direction (loosel...
What decreases with the loss of subsequent prot...
What is defined as a loss of hydrogen atoms? ox...
Natural gas is often found along with what othe...
What term is used to describe cells without a n...
What is used to carry out metric unit conversio...
If solutions of differing osmolarities are pres...
What do populations gain through births and imm...
What is it called when plants release water vap...
What do you call the atomic "ingredients" that ...
What is stacked in layers in "layer cake geolog...
A spontaneous change process called neutrino os...
What type of plate is an island arc found on? o...
How do you calculate the atomic mass of an elem...
The cytoskeleton is a cellular "scaffolding" or...
In animal cells, what arises from the centrosom...
What's the term for a relationship between two ...
Drip iirigation requires less water and reduces...
What term refers to a wall or partition that di...
       What mammal is the most intelligent? humans
What is the primary force driving fluid transpo...
Mercury is small, rocky and covered with what o...
Heat expansion is a result of the increase of w...
What is the molecular formula of carbon dioxide...
What organism constitutes frothy green "pond sc...
Spontaneous reactions release what type of ener...
Why do butterfly fish have fake eyespots? confu...
           Is urea or salt reabsorbed faster? salt
Glucose is an example of what simple carboyhydr...
Chemical energy results from the particular arr...
The visible surface of the sun is called what? ...
Which system is capable of responding quickly t...
What two substances do plants give off when the...
What kind of energy positions do electrons occu...
What are metals and good electrical conductors ...
What is the term for liquid water falling from ...
What term did schrödinger use for regions aroun...
What exactly happens during rna translation? pr...
                 How long are microfilaments? 7 nm
What is the area around the nucleus of an atom ...
What type of matter in the spinal cord has the ...
What type of sedimentary rocks are made of mine...
Sexual reproduction involves the production of ...
What is emitted by nuclei in alpha, beta, and g...
What do we call the recycling of inorganic matt...
The tensor fascia latae acts as what, in relati...
What cellular process is controlled by alloster...
What is the main function of the cardiovascular...
What happens to water when it is heated in the ...
What atoms make up a water molecule? hydrogen a...
What leads to the buildup of electric charges o...
What is it called when body’s internal environm...
Precipitation, evaporation, transpiration, and ...
Life span is distinct from what, which means th...
What is it called when the soils of the arctic ...
The three classes of elements are metals, nonme...
What do you call the fixed point of a lever? fu...
What process tends to be external in aquatic sp...
Which electromagnetic radiation is used to kill...
What is the term for going into a dormant state...
Shrimp are an example of what group within the ...
Many enzymes are simple proteins consisting ent...
What property of carbon and other elements can ...
A solution is what type of mixture, where the d...
The base in an antacid reacts to do what to exc...
In single-celled organisms, what does the plasm...
Red-green color blindness is an example of a se...
What can be switched off by a protein called th...
What is the name of vesicles that are formed by...
What is the term for the arrangement of veins i...
Anabolic reactions require energy, so they are ...
Lack of which attachment makes ester molecules ...
Viruses need what kind of cell in order to help...
Although vitamins and minerals do not provide w...
What is the science of how living things intera...
What function does a vacuole do for a cell? sto...
Sight, hearing, balance, taste, smell, and touc...
During grafting, the part of the plant that is ...
What is a winding ridge of sand deposited by a ...
What is a measure of the change in velocity of ...
Sympatric type of what occurs when a single pop...
Each atom has a required number of what? covale...
When the volume of a gas is decreased, what hap...
Exposure to what causes skin color to darken? s...
What colorful phenomenon occurs in the northern...
By what processes does the ocean modify landfor...
The term “vapor” refers to the gas phase when i...
Hypertension, or high blood pressure, can incre...
The carbon atoms are bonded together, with each...
What is the final stage of cell division in euk...
The metacarpophalangeal joints in the finger ar...
What is idefined as the mass of a substance div...
What does the kyoto protocol focus on controlli...
A van de graff generator produces what type of ...
What forms the small holes found in bread? carb...
In order to conduct what, electrons must move f...
Conductive losses in the middle ear can be part...
What is the term for the fast-moving air curren...
Vibrating electric and magnetic fields make up ...
What do you call the regular changes in biology...
The electric and magnetic fields are closely re...
What do you get by multiplying volume by the de...
Plant-like protists are autotrophs capable of w...
What type of energy is useful to humans because...
When performing anaerobic exercise, your muscle...
What type of doctor specializes in the laborato...
The smallest unit of structure and function in ...
Bilaterally symmetrical animals have both dorsa...
Which state of matter is not common on earth? p...
Which system of the body is responsible for bri...
The photoreceptive cells of the eye, where tran...
 E. coli need what kind of acids to survive? amino
Elements are defined by their atomic number, a ...
What laboratory instrument is used to analyze a...
Through a succession of mitotic cell divisions,...
Contour tillage helps slow water run-off and wh...
In a scientific experiment, the variable that i...
Cells must also be able to separate their relat...
For any given species, what term means the maxi...
With an increased understanding of gene regulat...
The rate of a reaction can be expressed either ...
What do molecules need to do for a reaction to ...
What is the term for the change in temperature ...
How many classes of biochemical compounds are t...
The fact that all animals have certain traits i...
Organisms that live in freshwater environments ...
What is the condition in which the thyroid glan...
      Where do amphibians lay their eggs? in water
The food particles are caught by the collar of ...
In seedless vascular plants such as ferns, the ...
There are two basic body plans in cnidarians wh...
In science, what is a bit of information that i...
What kind of potentially harmful compounds can ...
Change in what equals the average net external ...
What type of mammals are characterized by detai...
What process allows an individual to develop fr...
What do you call the membrane-bounded droplets ...
Bees are naturalized on every continent except ...
In arthropods, coxal glands and malphigian tubu...
What is the ultimate source of energy for all l...
What do you call compounds whose properties are...
What celestial object has been visited by manne...
What do you call a condition caused by mutation...
What is the common term for erythrocytesare, sp...
When do glaciers deposit their sediment? when t...
One of the earliest air pumps was made by? robe...
Terrestrial biomes are determined mainly by wha...
What are scientists able to determine about sta...
Scientists search for answers to questions and ...
What transmits nerve impulses to other cells? n...
The active transport of ions across the membran...
What process determines which of two fossils is...
Under which process do living things with benef...
Biceps brachii, brachialis, and brachioradialis...
Cancer involves what changes that modify cell-c...
Glucose, fructose, and galactose are hexose sug...
When an action and reaction occur, what is tran...
Which two planetary bodies have humans walked o...
The pion can only be created by violating the c...
What are named for their “spiny skin”? echinoderms
What is formed when sperm mixes with secretions...
Some plants have stolons, or stems, that run al...
Clearing land for agriculture and development i...
What in the skin dilates, or widens, in order t...
What burns to produce the white light in firewo...
Solids can be divided into amorphous solids and...
Some earthworms can also reproduce asexually by...
Most crustaceans have separate sexes, so they r...
Visible light is one type of this radiation? el...
Double-replacement reactions generally occur be...
What happens to the recessive traits in the off...
What is a small, spherical compartment separate...
What term is used to describe is the increased ...
How can natural resources be classified from a ...
What are the two types of endoplasmic reticulum...
We know from what type of waves produced by ear...
Radiocarbon is useful for dating relatively you...
Why are eutherian mammals sometimes called plac...
What is the name for the division of the cytopl...
How can you prevent food allergy symptoms? avoi...
Ground tissue forms the interior of the stem. t...
Insect wings are part of the exoskeleton and at...
What was the informal female name given to the ...
What is the term for a formula that shows the e...
What is defined as the spreading of white light...
What is used in the growth, development, functi...
When methane burns, what is produced along with...
What helps pumice float in water? gas bubble holes
What land mammal has the longest gestation peri...
What sustains the fetus while it grows inside t...
Two kinds of sex hormones are of particular imp...
Zoonotic pathogens are transferred from what to...
Restriction enzymes or restriction endonuclease...
What are chemical reactions represented by? che...
The length of the sloped surface of a ramp is r...
Producers, primary consumers, higher-level cons...
Parthenogenis in komodo dragons is an example o...
The value that occurs most often in a data set ...
Over time, deposited sediments may harden into ...
What is the most useful quantity for counting p...
What is the failure of replicated chromosomes d...
In angiosperms, flowers and fruits are adaptati...
Through what part do exocrine glands discharge ...
Where do plankton, nekton, and benthos live? in...
What gland is a butterfly-shaped organ located ...
What cause the rippled surface of the ocean? waves
What small glands are abundant within the mucou...
What is the term for the development of an embr...
Where does carbohydrate digestion begin in the ...
When did new plants start sprouting after the f...
What are the largest known proteins called? titins
Metals, fossil fuels, and water are all example...
What is the force that causes centripetal accel...
Pressure and ________ are directly proportional...
What is the process by which plants capture the...
Categorized based on how they produce their mrn...
Primary alcohols are oxidized to form what? ald...
 Where does electric power originate? power plants
What type of fertilization do most reptiles use...
Visible light is part of what spectrum? electro...
Amino acids are made by which kind of plastid? ...
The amount of power passed through transmission...
When a balloon is rubbed against hair, they att...
The cell starting meiosis is called a what? pri...
A wave is the transfer of energy through what e...
What nest of cells protect the egg as it mature...
Why do beer brewers add yeast to the wort? to m...
Amino acids broken down by metabolic process ar...
What type of logic can lead to important conclu...
Screws move objects to a higher elevation by in...
What is the second state of photosynthesis? cal...
What is the only amphibian without legs? caecil...
Most organisms could not survive without what b...
Metabolic cooperation between different prokary...
What word describes a carbonyl where the carbon...
The concentration of hydronium ions in a soluti...
What do we call structures that are similar in ...
What is continually released during childbirth ...
What is the addition of nucleotides to the mrna...
Wave amplitude and wavelength are two important...
       What is the color of mercury(ii) oxide? red
How many hydrogen atoms does a nitrogen atom of...
What ultimately results in the cycling of nutri...
Platforms, arches, and sea stacks are all landf...
The state of matter - solid, liquid, or gas - i...
Panting allows dogs to get rid of what? excess ...
      What is the standard unit for mass? kilogram
 The planets orbit around what celestial body? sun
What kind of behaviors are adaptive because the...
What is the term for a galaxy that is a rotatin...
What occurs when a former inhabited area gets d...
The chloroplasts contained within the green alg...
What do seismic waves prove about the inner cor...
     What is divided during cytokinesis? cytoplasm
Materials such as metals have low resistance to...
An alloy is a mixture of what with one or more ...
A can of warm soda will fizz more because incre...
What branch of biology studies animal behavior?...
What does the esophagus connect to at its botto...
Hair is a component of which bodily system? int...
What type of electrons are electrons that are n...
Electrons flow through wires to create what? el...
The ileocecal valve, a sphincter, is usually in...
A sequence of amino acids in single polypeptide...
What type of chemicals do ants communicate with...
   The age of a rock in years is its? absolute age
What organ eliminates solid wastes that remain ...
What is the term for when a species no longer e...
What is the jelly-like material in which the co...
What is the release of energy in the form of hi...
Today, new elements are usually named after fam...
An infection may be intracellular or extracellu...
Like all tetrapods except birds and mammals, fr...
Energy is the capacity to do work or to produce...
In mammals, sound waves are collected by the ex...
Unlike ionic compounds, covalent compounds do n...
How do seed plants benefit from herbivores? dis...
What is the process in which cells make protein...
How do you decrease errors in an experiment? ta...
What term describes scientists who debate the o...
What anatomical system is made up of neurons an...
What term describes the overall ability of an a...
Production of abnormal white blood cells occurs...
How is the energy of an atomic orbital affected...
During the typical human female ovulation cycle...
Spores are the basic reproductive units of what...
During diastole, what happens to the elastic wa...
Blood pressure is significantly affected by wha...
An electormagnet is a piece of iron inside a? s...
What term describes motion that repeats itself ...
What form do biofuels take that makes them very...
Most of food's chemical energy ultimately comes...
The northern spotted owl and the mexican spotte...
Human actions such as plowing, logging, constru...
Why does the fish odour diminish when you put l...
When additional water is added to an aqueous so...
How many chambers does a mammalian heart have? ...
Meaning a disease that spreads from person to p...
The common carotid artery gives rise to the ext...
What are resources that don't run out? renewabl...
Maintaining a balance inside the body or cells ...
The ability to what is affected by the velocity...
What is the process of isolating a specific gen...
The epochs of the universe are known back to ve...
What is the term for a change in an object’s mo...
All metabolic functions carried out by a prokar...
How does burning matter affect its mass? the ma...
What type of stratified deposit is formed where...
   Where do greenhouse gases trap heat? atmosphere
The hamstrings flex the leg, whereas the quadri...
Many ceramics are composed of what, which are s...
Attaching strips of neutral metals that are hig...
Weight is a measure of what force pulling down ...
What organ absorbs about 90 percent of the wate...
In drosophila, gradients of morphogens encoded ...
What features of a salamander's skin help prote...
Precipitation maps show the amount of what in d...
What is a germ cell that divides into gametocyt...
The saguaro doesn't have any leaves to lose wat...
What is the most important source of energy on ...
What do cyclotrons use to cause particles to mo...
An example of a variable relating to the ramp i...
Deep within the earth what force is so great th...
What shape is the colony of a volvox cell? holl...
What do puffer fish produce to protect itself? ...
What are polymers composed of many sugar buildi...
Most gas molecules in the atmosphere are pulled...
Coral reefs and tropical rainforests are ecosys...
Gymnosperms and angiosperms are types of ______...
Not getting enough calcium may cause what healt...
What is the sequence of elementary steps that t...
What is the clear, curved structure that works ...
What is the color of the powder of a mineral ca...
What part of the plant anchors it into the soil...
Evolution happens because of what? natural sele...
The nephron is the functional unit of what pair...
Nonshivering thermogenesis, which involves the ...
What do you call a predator species that affect...
What do you call the electrons in the outer ene...
How many valence electrons do neutral phosphoru...
What impact does photosynthesis have on the dir...
In an experiment, what is kept constant so they...
The rate of evaporation depends only on the sur...
What are the two main types of diabetes? type 1...
What function does the longer flagellae perform...
What are the three stages of water? ice, liquid...
What is the first stage of cellular respiration...
Roundworms are intervertebrates that belong to ...
The development of multi-cellular organisms beg...
While components of a mixture can be separated ...
What is it called when pollen from one plant fe...
Calcium hydroxide and calcium carbonate are eff...
Most of these bacterial illnesses can be preven...
If something is in the state of matter where it...
What is the region known as the myelencephalon ...
What involves the reaction of a hydrocarbon wit...
What law states that matter cannot be created o...
The air bubbles resulting from cavitation expan...
Which gender typically experiences growth spurt...
What are the only organisms that can decompose ...
What part of the plant do nutrients enter? the ...
What is a solid particle that is indestructible...
Activated macrophages and neutrophils discharge...
The extracellular fluid is in contact with the ...
Muscarinic receptors can cause both depolarizat...
What does rising air do when it reaches the top...
The what is the number of wave cycles that pass...
Intermediate filaments tend to give the structu...
What is the process in which a layer of a secon...
What is the term for diseases in which blood do...
Cardiomyocytes are striated muscle cells found ...
Which protein, that stores oxygen in muscle cel...
A membrane has what property if it can control ...
What is the term for the amount of space taken ...
What is the most common form of cancer in women...
Exposure to what is the most common cause of he...
What basic plant structures generally have larg...
What is the main component of phytoplankton? algae
Metabolic enzymes catalyze catabolic reactions ...
Ponds and lakes are examples of what kind of bi...
The skeletons of humans and horses are examples...
What type of tissue transports water, nutrients...
Stomata are special pores that allow gasses to ...
What is created when the wave source moves fast...
In a transverse wave, the highest point the wav...
Which orbitals do electrons fill first? closest...
Many discrete characters are determined by a si...
      What is the hardest type of coal? anthracite
All cells have voltages across their what? plas...
Which is the largest planet in our solar system...
A crucial function of the cranial nerves is to ...
In what process is energy from the sun converte...
Sunlight gives plants the energy they need for ...
What is lowered when salts go into ion form? re...
What is produced during the hydrogenation of ve...
Where does fertilization usually take place? fa...
What monitors the level of carbon dioxide in th...
When volume does not change, temperature is pro...
Single-displacement reactions are a subset of w...
What is the process by which the substances you...
Why do electronegativities decrease from top to...
What are the three types of symbiosis? mutualis...
What term is used to describe the ability to ch...
What measures exactly how much gravity is pulli...
Where do producers in an ecosystem generally ge...
Generators usually transform kinetic energy int...
Most modern seed plants are angiosperms that pr...
     Most enzymes are classified as what? proteins
Each hemisphere of the brain contains regions c...
Emphysema is a chronic disease caused by the br...
Lactose is a disaccharide consisting of the mon...
Why does photosynthesis not occur in the deep-w...
What, now former, planet is small, icy, and roc...
What process allows plants to convert light ene...
What is the equation of power released? voltage...
Silencing genes through epigenetic mechanisms i...
Along with muscles, what helps the body move wi...
What process do all species use to make the nex...
According to one of einstein's theory, while li...
        Soil forms where land areas are what? flat
An estimated 99 percent of the species that hav...
What type of energy is the energy of moving mat...
               What does bile help to digest ? fat
A gene may have different versions called what?...
Nonvascular plants lack vascular tissue and wha...
What is a mixture of metal with one or more oth...
Pheromones enable what, which is vital for orga...
What is the part of the shadow that is partiall...
When a mountain stream flows onto flatter land ...
The processes of homeostasis and temperature co...
Light from objects at different distances is fo...
Breaking a window with a baseball is an example...
Scientists will often observe and then what the...
Similar to the coil on a stove, changes in what...
Proto-oncogenes are positive cell-cycle regulat...
When the maximum amount of solute has been diss...
What is the movement of substances across the m...
What energy, produced by vibrations, cannot tra...
According to rutherford, where is the vast majo...
What is the term for organisms that make their ...
What happens to neutral matter when electrons a...
Seawalls and breakwaters are built parallel to ...
What is the term for the loss of one or more el...
What are the lipids containing phosphorus? phos...
Ethers readily dissolve what type of molecules?...
                What are bones made up of? tissues
When it is winter in the northern hemisphere th...
What happens when liquid water evaporates? humi...
What vision defect occurs because the eye is to...
What happens when a neutral atom gains or loses...
Why are goose feathers preferred for stuffing b...
What is the outermost part of the sun's atmosph...
What is the series of changes in the life of an...
The outer planets are made of hydrogen and heli...
When a liquid is heated, molecules with enough ...
What property of an object is obtained by multi...
Solutions that are prepared in which a solute c...
The word fungus comes from the latin word for w...
The part of a plant that is responsible for rep...
Isotopes have the same number of protons and el...
Shivering and adipose tissue called brown fat a...
Where are the somas of sensory neurons located ...
The thick tunica media allows muscular arteries...
Why do crystals have relatively sharp and well-...
In which area does conduction mainly happen? lo...
What is secreted by the cells surrounding sperm...
Chemical reactions either require or release wh...
Energy that is released when a chemical reactio...
What is the largest object in the solar system?...
In ovoviviparous fish like shark, what develops...
What is the term for a technique used to separa...
How do basal mammals like monotreme reproduce? ...
Abundant in unpolluted ponds and streams, plana...
           What does parasitic mean? lives in host
What scientist constructed a tree diagram, sepa...
Most of the genes in the eukaryotic cell are fo...
What are known as the building blocks of protei...
What are the three types of muscle tissue in th...
The white mountains in new hampshire are part o...
What is the ratio of the uncertainty to the mea...
   What is produced by the sebaceous glands? sebum
What do you call vesicle transport into the cel...
What are daily changes in the level of ocean wa...
What is the name of the narrow tube that begins...
What is the term for how close a measurement is...
What are the two most abundant elements in the ...
What is the term for a close relationship betwe...
Atomic emission spectra are produced when excit...
The lungs perform gas exchange using air and wh...
In addition to glucose, what gas is used during...
Which germ layers are essential for animal embr...
Scrubbers and catalytic converters are examples...
What is the weighted average of the masses of a...
The ability of a water spider to walk across a ...
What are compounds with the same molecular form...
What happens when the blood cannot reach the he...
What kind of solid is characterized by an unorg...
An object with more mass has greater thermal en...
Ether molecules have an oxygen atom and can eng...
What basic structures of the nervous system inn...
Pollutants in surface water can filter into the...
What is the most common cause of dwarfism? acho...
What describes how much matter is in a certain ...
 Axons pass what on to other cells? nerve impulses
Sister chromatids separate and move to opposite...
What is the distance that sound waves travel in...
What would you call a relationship where the ba...
What is the supply of water to land or crops to...
What form of matter has neither a definite shap...
Which stage has already been completed by the t...
Unlike pure substances, mixtures have a what? v...
What process does not cause a rock to melt comp...
A disaccharide is a pair of monosaccharides. di...
At what age is skeletal maturity reached by hum...
What is most of earth's surface covered with? w...
What is the sac-like organ of the body that is ...
All chemical reactions require what to get star...
Mitosis is nuclear division during which duplic...
Movement of water and minerals in the xylem sol...
The temperature of the box is related to the av...
What are organisms that eat just one type of fo...
Mechanisms for establishing cellular asymmetrie...
Biodiversity hot spots are prime candidates for...
What are single-celled or colonial organisms th...
Differences in density between water and air le...
What organizational tool, arguably the best in ...
Solvation involves surrounding ions with what? ...
The appendicular skeleton includes all bones of...
Cow manure can have a second life as a source o...
Eggs reside in the mesohyl, but sperm are carri...
Population size influences the chances of a spe...
Sound is the transfer of energy from a vibratin...
          Sterols are a subgroup of what? steroids
         Cardiac muscle is only found where? heart
What process provides over 99 percent of the en...
Unlike energy, what doesn’t need to be constant...
A colloid is a homogeneous mixture with medium-...
What causes rivers to always flow downhill? gra...
What elements do water and hydrogen peroxide co...
Name the virus that causes cold sores. herpes v...
Cardiac veins parallel the small cardiac arteri...
What is a dip slip fault where the dip of the f...
The major entrance and exit for the respiratory...
Sexual reproduction is the combination of (usua...
What kind of reproduction involves just one par...
What do you call the hard case that surrounds t...
Choosing to not smoke and using sunscreen are e...
What is said about the speed of rotation in sys...
In gas exchange, oxygen flows into the blood, a...
What happens during the process of digestion? b...
What do you call the folded layers of rock wher...
Cutting forests and clearing land has also incr...
Microevolution occurs in a population when what...
What is the alkaline hydrolysis reaction of an ...
What is the time interval required for one comp...
Plant-like protists are autotrophs, meaning the...
In what form do plants and animals store sugar ...
What forces the fetus out of the uterus? contin...
The large and small intestine are both divided ...
If everything in a system stays the same but th...
What do you call the transfer of thermal energy...
The outer layer of what anatomical structure is...
The process of a liquid becoming a gas is calle...
How does the nucleus divide during nuclear fiss...
How do heavy alkanes affect the skin? form a pr...
If an electric current passes through water, wa...
What makes luminous dials glow in the dark? pho...
What liquid is referred to as the "universal so...
  What is the active ingredient in cloves? eugenol
What term means the adjusting of systems within...
What is the name of the formation that regulate...
 What do the gonadotropins regulate? gametogenesis
Valence electrons also determine how well—if at...
What celestial bodies are born in clouds of gas...
What does a hydrolase use to split molecules? w...
What term is used to describe the transfer of t...
What is the source of precipitation? the atmosp...
       How does bacteria reproduce? binary fission
    What causes holes in bread? yeast fermentation
Which bone is derived from the fusion of four v...
Researchers have long based their hypotheses ab...
The body does not exist in isolation. there is ...
If a sperm fertilizes an egg of a seed plant, t...
Metabolism produces waste energy in the form of...
Electromagnets can be turned on or off and thei...
In which part of a bird stomach is food stored,...
Physical science can be defined as the study of...
What is the term for animals that defend their ...
What is the main reason for weather change? mov...
Most lipids in your diet should be what type, f...
Crude oil is a mixture of different types of wh...
What is the representative particle in pure met...
What takes place in the organelle known as the ...
Organic and biochemical equations show the init...
What is used during every step of oil productio...
When do the eggs in a female's ovaries start to...
Drilling wells into hot rocks to release hot wa...
What is the state of matter that resembles a ga...
What enthalpy change is observed in an exotherm...
                What does hypoxic mean? low oxygen
Who has proposed that cigarette advertising in ...
What is the reaction called when an acid and a ...
What is the term for when clumped solids sink t...
A wildfire clears a forest of vegetation and an...
What system of the body can specifically protec...
During glycolysis, each glucose molecule is bro...
The single circular dna chromosome of bacteria ...
Plaque is surgically removed from the walls of ...
Where does most of the earth's energy come from...
What is the primary energy source for cells? gl...
What is a simple sugar such as fructose or gluc...
Gram-negative bacteria have a cell wall made of...
What term is used to describe muscle fibers tha...
What are the main organs for breathing in a mam...
What class of animals have four limbs and produ...
No chemical process on the planet can match the...
Which disease afflicts children who don't get e...
What kind of reactions between an acid and a ba...
What human bodily function does cellulose help ...
What are large vesicles derived from the endopl...
The burning of charcoal is what type of reactio...
What is responsible for the physical changes of...
Unlike prokaryotes, eukaryotes have what? cell ...
An electron is accelerated from rest through a ...
What is the most commonly used source of energy...
Silk and cotton are examples of what type of fi...
Tuna have been shown to contain high levels of ...
What does the esophagus produce for lubrication...
What type of amplitudes and wavelengths avoid d...
What is the smallest main part of the brain? th...
Adding the number of protons plus the number of...
Why do people build dams and levees? prevent fl...
What runs through the penis and opens to the ou...
 What is the chemical name of table sugar? sucrose
What enzyme is found in the small intestine cat...
While smooth muscle tissue can regenerate from ...
What natural process allows water to return aga...
What is a spectrometer able to produce from sta...
Without what food chain component, organic wast...
What are made on ribosomes in the cytoplasm? pr...
 How do you test a hypothesis? conduct experiments
What kind of power plant uses energy to heat wa...
What is defined as the product of a force times...
Visible light has what that can be detected by ...
Chemical elements and water are recycled throug...
The anterior muscles of the neck facilitate swa...
How many directions can ions flow along the axo...
Ionic, covalent, and hydrogen are three importa...
In classical physics, momentum is a simple prod...
What compounds contain only carbon and hydrogen...
Synthetic and natural rubber, styrofoam and pla...
Some viruses carry a few viral enzyme molecules...
Dietary proteins are broken down into what comp...
What kind of plants do not need adaptations for...
Organisms cannot live alone, needing other orga...
What force pulls bodies with mass together? gra...
If a fixed amount of gas maintains a perfectly ...
What conveys signals received by the eye to the...
When cardiac muscle contracts, the heart does w...
Do placental mammals give birth to relatively s...
     What is the largest class of elements? metals
Liquid hcl can be used to do what to the ph of ...
The three greatest proximate threats to biodive...
The sun’s energy is converted to chemical energ...
             What are antacids comprised of? bases
Where can neurohormones act within the body? th...
What are composed of a phosphate group, a sugar...
Scientists measure the gases that escape from a...
What molecule is made of two hydrogen atoms and...
What occurs when muscle fibers get shorter? mus...
The nitrogen cycle includes air, soil, and what...
As the organism grows more sophisticated, what ...
Rh antibodies can prove dangerous if they cross...
Galaxies can be spiral, elliptical, or which ot...
What often involves the loss of hydrogen, the g...
Luster, malleability, ductility, and conductivi...
Anosmia, the loss of what sense, is often the r...
Which planet is the kuiper belt closest to? nep...
Does warm air sit above or below cooler air in ...
What is the name for the stratospheric gas laye...
All atoms have equal numbers of what two partic...
What is the only planet that rotates clockwise ...
Most radioactive emissions that people are expo...
    What decay produces helium nuclei? alpha decay
Instead of wood, what do some fireplaces use? p...
What is the sum of all biochemical reactions in...
What process is magnesium important to? photosy...
What type of shots do people with allergy get? ...
   Where do polychaete worms live? the ocean floor
What kind of material that might otherwise go t...
What was the appendix used for in the past but ...
Dermal, vascular, and ground tissue make up wha...
What term is used to describe the conditions in...
What does the human body produce to help digest...
What is a coil of wire with electric current fl...
     What type of young do scorpions produce? live
The chloroplast integrates the two stages of wh...
What is the name for the amount of water vapor ...
What is the body system that digests food mecha...
What is measured with a personal dosimeter? exp...
Which plants sometimes colonize areas by disrup...
What are electromagnetic waves with the longest...
Resonance has been used in what kind of human-m...
What is the strength of an earthquake called? m...
What organs need constant pressure to filter th...
After an infection has been brought under contr...
              How do lancelets reproduce? sexually
What is the storage form of glucose in humans a...
What two factors influence the pressure of flui...
Although it is the easiest to observe, what pro...
Where are bile acids, needed to emulsify lipids...
What type of molecule is first broken down in c...
The rate at which the body uses food energy to ...
 How many valence electrons does carbon have? four
What word describes a molecule that repels pola...
Which pollution can cause lung cancer and can a...
Counterweights and diagonal steel beams are use...
The major component of what cellular structures...
The cytoskeleton crisscrosses the cytoplasm, th...
Initiation, elongation, and termination are the...
What do we call the most widely accepted cosmol...
Angiosperms possess reproductive structures tha...
What kind of tissue consists of trabeculae and ...
What is the most important factor in determinin...
Energy constantly changes back and forth betwee...
The tendency of an object to resist a change in...
When land used for mining or other purposes is ...
There are how many visual clues to indicate a c...
Genetic traits are characteristics encoded in w...
In 1802, charles and gay-lussac both proposed t...
What material is transported in a process calle...
What has has revolutionized biological and biom...
Electrons are organized into shells and subshel...
What is the double-membrane structure that cons...
Each daughter cell represents one outcome of al...
What is the science of classifying the many org...
Platelets play a role in what cascade of reacti...
What force includes forces of attraction and re...
How many atoms of oxygen does silicon dioxide c...
A transformer has two coils, electrically insul...
What state of matter is characterized by tiny p...
Where are unsaturated fatty acids commonly foun...
Why is gingko biloba planted in public spaces? ...
What term means a representation of an object, ...
         What makes metals shiny? light reflection
What are materials that have high resistance to...
Which system in your body stores urine and is c...
Which type of isomers generally have lower boil...
Which temperature scale is commonly used in sci...
What is required for both the synthesis and bre...
Parasites usually harm their hosts (or they wou...
What basic structures are the site of all the l...
From where have the earliest ocean plants thoug...
The liver has three main components: hepatocyte...
What bone is is one of a pair that together for...
When a rock is altered by heat from a nearby ma...
Which is one of the most complicated parts of g...
How is thermal energy transferred in every-day,...
What consists of all the biotic and abiotic fac...
What is the theory scientists use to explain th...
In what group of animals several forms of asexu...
After the amino acid molecule has been bound to...
The conversion of food that is consumed to nutr...
What is the unsorted pile of material dropped b...
Each proton has how many units of positive char...
Because charges must have an unbroken path to f...
In living systems, diffusion of substances into...
Ancient greeks mistook what simple sedentary an...
What trimester is associated with rapid fetal g...
What are all scientific explanations and interp...
What is the process in which an atom becomes an...
    What are two examples of lipids? fats and oils
What can radioactive strontium replace in the h...
Silicon with an element that gives it extra ele...
Cold sores, influenza, and the common cold are ...
What helps to propel sponge larvae through the ...
The majority of cells in blood are erythrocytes...
Which gases trap heat in the atmosphere? greenh...
The arrangement of what plant structures can be...
Acceleration is defined as the change in what o...
Some protists absorb nutrients from decaying ma...
What noble gas follows hydrogen on the periodic...
What is the order and family of a meat-eating c...
What is required between cytoskeleton and motor...
Underground rock in a molten state is called? m...
What takes over the synthesis and secretion of ...
Distillation is an effective method to separate...
Aids is an infectious disease of which system? ...
Where are the olfactory organs of snails locate...
What is the term for a pure substance that poss...
What is the term for a cross in which the inher...
Through what system of the body do hormones gen...
What sort of digestion do animals engage in? in...
What is the most abundant biochemical compound?...
When organisms penetrate a rock, they accelerat...
What determines velocity? distance over time in...
What term is used to describe a simple diagram ...
How can nuclear fusion in stars be simulated? p...
What type of tissue transmits nerve impulses th...
Animals produce most of what chemicals, which a...
How do parathyroid hormones react as a body age...
What describe the fraction or percentage of a m...
What are the most numerous organisms in the wor...
What helps push the fetus from the uterus durin...
Telescopes use which kind of lenses to enlarge ...
How does uric acid react to water? does not dis...
Which kingdom are mosses and trees included in?...
What is the developing human organism referred ...
In an acidic medium, add which ions to balance?...
Which type of plankton make food via photosynth...
What is capable of altering the rate of time pa...
Damages and deaths are directly affected by wha...
What is the the basic si unit for mass? kilogra...
What are objects that are launched into the air...
What are hydrocarbons with double bonds called?...
     What is the liquid component in blood? plasma
Functional groups are groups of atoms that occu...
Predators can replace what tool in agriculture....
What is a mixture of eroded rock, minerals, par...
           All cells need what for energy? glucose
In an experiment, what is the affected variable...
Does the stream-lined body featured on most fis...
What is the role of the sodium ion in the neutr...
What is the name of the line used in topographi...
Sporangia produce spores that develop into tiny...
A long chain of mountains that rises up high ab...
When bacteria are destroyed by leukocytes, what...
Hierarchical classification can reflect the bra...
Unstable isotopes give off particles and energy...
What structure is an organelle that contains en...
   What is the unit used to measure voltage? volts
What type of gases are used for balloons, light...
Some living things on the ocean floor are sourc...
Many protists form what kind of beneficial asso...
When two of these meet, the result is often a s...
What causes food to move through the esophagus?...
What do we call the solid form of hydrocarbons?...
What is needed to create muscles, regulate chem...
What does the vertebral column , or backbone, p...
X rays and what other type of electromagnetic w...
The anterior pituitary produces seven different...
What is the term for the measure of the average...
Pepsin and trypsin are examples of enzymes invo...
     What is the only metalloid in group 13? boron
How is a mammal developed if not inside of a pl...
Slime molds have several morphological similari...
What do willow trees produce to kill bacteria? ...
The ph scale is a scale used to express the con...
What is the term for something left behind by o...
What connects the peripheral nervous system to ...
In which supergroup are red algae and green alg...
If a machine only changes the direction of a fo...
What is an advantage of brightly colored fruits...
What is the apt term for the very slow movement...
The zeros at the end of a number are known as w...
Does water get colder or warmer the deeper you ...
Many transition metals and their compounds are ...
What do willow trees produce to kill bacteria? ...
What do decomposers release once they have brok...
Often determining the strength or intensity of ...
Which type of muscle fiber can sustain long con...
We would genetically be all the same if genes d...
Thylakoid membranes contain molecules of what g...
What is the name for a way of learning that inv...
What scale measures the total energy released b...
All enzymes have an optimal temperature and wha...
When do homologous chromosomes form pairs? meiosis
What forms when the metal sodium gives up an el...
What type of gas is produced by alcoholic ferme...
What type of transport is vesicle transport con...
Strong bands of dense, regular connective tissu...
Homes and transportation use what percent of al...
What falls roughly in the middle of the electro...
What are models good for? they give us an idea ...
Explanations of some aspect of the natural worl...
What is found in abundance in the polar ice cap...
        What do nerve impulses travel along? axons
Cyanobacteria are bluish green in color because...
How many miles is the distance between the eart...
What is the dominant form of plant life in most...
   What is the largest mammal on earth? blue whale
What are elements that generally do not conduct...
Superconductors expel a magnetic field from the...
Continually increasing the pressure on the liqu...
Hypersensitivity may refer to a maladaptive res...
Similarity that results from common ancestry is...
We all start as a single cell and soon grow int...
Which acid contains only one ionizable hydrogen...
The epidermis is made of which closely packed c...
What is a double membrane of the nucleus that e...
What effect does changing temperature have on a...
What type of cancer can the use of tanning beds...
Organisms tend to be larger in size at higher w...
A major step in animal evolution was the evolut...
What is the name of the process that refers to ...
What is the clear, protective covering on the o...
Deeper layers of rock must be older than layers...
Dentists occasionally use metallic mixtures cal...
Which infection turns ant's abdomen red and fru...
What do mitochondrions have an inner and outer ...
Resistance to pesticides in a population of ins...
What expresses the mass of substance in terms o...
   What organ is the hypothalamus a part of? brain
Urea, ammonia and uric acid are types of what w...
Besides tasting food, what organ is necessary f...
What is transmitted by moving electrons in an e...
What happens if a molecule forms strong bonds t...
In general, kinetic energy is the form of energ...
What event occurs between the two solstices? eq...
Alveoli can be found in which organ in the huma...
About one-fourth of the blood pumped with each ...
The paired bones of the skull are the palatine,...
Each muscle fiber contains hundreds of organell...
The common cold and flu are examples of human d...
What are the two layers of the skin? epidermis ...
Light can be used to eject what from a solid ma...
What element is a biochemical compound based on...
    The amniotic sac is attached to what? placenta
Which type of respiration helps organisms gener...
When matter reacts, there can be what that come...
What is located at about 80 degrees north latit...
What is a byproduct from the combustion of foss...
What can damage animal tissues? extreme pressur...
Along with other functions, what do carbohydrat...
What system of the body uses amylase and pepsin...
What are genes located on the sex chromosomes c...
The posterior pituitary releases which hormone,...
What consists mainly of parenchymal cells with ...
What is the movement of animals from one place ...
Twin studies have been instrumental in demonstr...
What is a measure of the size of sound waves? a...
Covalent compounds form individual molecules ra...
Winds are caused by differences in what? air pr...
What is generated when a heart ventricle contra...
What area beneath the earth's surface do magma ...
What develop inside chambers called ovaries, wh...
What kind of lakes form when volcanic eruptions...
The size of the solute particles determines the...
The vas deferens and ejaculatory ducts are part...
What part of an egg contains the genetic materi...
Bees and other wild animals perform what functi...
What does the sebaceous gland secrete which wat...
           What water is about 3.5% salt? seawater
Catabolic and anabolic hormones in the body hel...
Food chains and what describe the transfer of e...
The type of eruption a volcano has depends on t...
What organ has four ventricles, all of which de...
The cell theory and the theory of evolution by ...
How many types of antigens can an antibody matc...
What do drugs that alleviate symptoms of schizo...
 What destroys the filtered pathogens? lymphocytes
A device that produces a very focused beam of v...
The second step in eukaryotic cell division is ...
Approximately how many galaxies are there in th...
What theory of evolution is charles darwin most...
What organ system is different in men and women...
Why do effusive eruptions rarely kill anyone? t...
 What are hot fragments of rock called? pyroclasts
Unevenness or asymmetry in the focus of the eye...
The addition of electron gives the halide ions ...
Partially decayed remains of plants and animals...
Where is the most significant connection betwee...
What do you call the daily changes in the level...
What are the specialized building blocks of you...
What do plants make to store extra glucose? sta...
Sand dunes migrate when sand is blown up a slop...
Inside each lymph node is a honeycomb of connec...
What "apparatus" is responsible for sorting, mo...
When two haploid gametes unite during fertiliza...
What kind of phenotype results in a case of inc...
Chloroplasts, chromoplasts, and leucoplasts are...
What is the attraction of a particular atom for...
          How many continents do birds breed on? 7
Dna consists of how many long chains of nucleot...
What is the transition from liquid to gas is ca...
What is inside the plasma membrane of a prokary...
When the helium is gone, the stars become what?...
What is the change of state from a solid to a g...
      What type of cells are gametes? reproductive
What is the touch response in plants called? th...
Humans have an estimated 20,000 to 22,000 of wh...
What is defined as the amount of force acting o...
What system consists of glands that secrete hor...
  Where are the oceans most polluted? along coasts
What organelles are known as the energy "powerh...
What is the effect on pressure when the area of...
What two elements primarily make up the sun? hy...
Adipose is a connective tissue made up of cells...
Where are about 75% of the tar sands in the wor...
Does pressure increase or decrease when gas par...
What are the two most common vision problems? n...
What is the pair of bean-shaped organs that fil...
Met, asn, trp, and gln connect together like be...
What is a carbon-based compound that is found i...
What do you call a mirror shaped like the insid...
Ions that contain fewer electrons than protons ...
What factors consist of parts of the environmen...
What is another name for a reasonable explanati...
What is the logarithmic scale that measures the...
Polarization occurs between a charged and what ...
Glucose, fructose, and other sugars that have s...
What is precipitation that flows over the surfa...
What is the method that is a plan for asking qu...
What branch of physics deals with the smallest ...
What kinds of acids are proteins made out of? a...
Whisk ferns have yellow sporangia and no what? ...
Do tropical regions have very high or very low ...
What type of experiment involves two identical ...
How does the core of the sun radiate energy? nu...
What is the concentration of gas molecules in t...
What type of energy causes erosion at the shore...
Long distance runners try to maintain constant ...
What is the smallest particle of an element tha...
A biofilm is a colony of what that is stuck to ...
The stem of a horsetail is characterized by the...
What do power plants burn to generate electrici...
What organ lets us understand what we see, hear...
What is the more common term for ethanoic acid,...
What type of pollution results from the contami...
What are the "chemical messenger" molecules use...
Many innovative farming methods can prevent wha...
As the atoms approach one another, their electr...
What force holds together both types of star cl...
What are the rod-like structures made of short ...
Vertebrates with four limbs are also called wha...
What is the name of the disorder of the arterie...
What is defined as a close relationship between...
What do you call the force identified by a nort...
The voltage of a voltaic cell can be determined...
What type of fatty acids have bent chains? unsa...
All seed plants and a few seedless vascular pla...
The three segments of arthropods are the head, ...
A notochord has in common with what vertbrate s...
Most members of what mammalian order possess op...
What refers to a group of individual organisms ...
The rise in greenhouse gases has what effect on...
What two types of atoms bond to form sulfate mi...
Where does groundwater primarily come from? pre...
   What determines sex in animals? sex chromosomes
The joints of the carpal bones in the wrist are...
If a unit is named after a person it needs to b...
What is the name for the inner lining of the ut...
What is it called when currents keep reversing ...
What is the name given to anything that has mas...
What is the upper most level of earth's layers ...
What are secreted into the gi tract by organs o...
In what organ does pepsin help break down prote...
What begins when a neuron receives a chemical s...
Pink snapdragons are an example of what? incomp...
Air quality is a measure of what in the air? po...
What do solar cells convert the energy in sunli...
Both endotherms and ectotherms control what thr...
What occurs when the bronchioles swell and the ...
What giant planet is far away from and much les...
Bacteria, viruses, fungi, and protozoa are exam...
Newton’s third law of motion describes what pro...
Translation is the second part of the central d...
What helps us see rainbows in the sky? visible ...
How the individuals in a population are spread ...
The passenger pigeon, the dodo bird, and the wo...
Both fats and oils are made up of long chains o...
What adds phosphate groups to receptor proteins...
Cold fronts in winter may bring what type of st...
What is added to alcohol and used as an antisep...
Excretion of ions occurs mainly through what or...
Acids can also react with metals, and when they...
Convection is the transfer of what type of ener...
Foresters commonly inoculate pine seedlings wit...
What are animal fats and oils such as olive and...
What type of alloys are used in musical instrum...
Osteoclasts and osteoblasts play key roles in r...
      What is the general shape of centrioles? rod
Why does water infiltrate the ground? because s...
What is the upward force exerted by fluids when...
   What do dendrites receive signals from? neurons
What is the term for the exchange of genetic ma...
What must be overcome to change the motion of a...
Which action of the stomach helps chemical dige...
What two lenses comprise a compound microscope?...
Physical and chemical differences help ecologis...
What are the organic compounds that the body ne...
To undo the tarnish on copper pennies, you can ...
What kind of bonding between alcohol molecules ...
During summer in the northern hemisphere, the n...
Also called lodestone, the mineral magnetite is...
            How many valves are in the heart? four
Momentum is directly related to both mass and? ...
Bones are made up of different types of what? t...
What do metals typically lose to achieve stabil...
What happens when a sperm and an egg cell combi...
What is the ability to change or move matter? e...
How many weeks are in the life cycle of ladybug...
What is the respiratory pigment of almost every...
Objects moving at different speeds, in differen...
What type of compounds make up the cells and ti...
Meiosis and what process are both preceded by o...
In their pure form, all elements have an oxidat...
What is a close relationship between two specie...
Multiple sclerosis, huntington’s disease, parki...
What includes the living organisms in an area a...
Bacteria may become untreatable if they develop...
What grows through blue cheese that gives it th...
The two main types of phagocytic cells in the m...
What is aggravated by practices such as logging...
           What type of hydrocarbon is coal? solid
What chemicals in the liver support glucose hom...
When resources become limiting, populations fol...
Along with climate, this also influences the ty...
What is defined as anything that takes up space...
What is the name of the simplest carbon molecul...
Hyperparathyroidism results from an overproduct...
What is formed when different gases are confine...
What property of fluids causes something to sta...
What are the tiny sacs in the lungs where gas e...
What is the stage between a zygote and polyp? l...
What is the term for a particle outside the nuc...
Scientists goal is develop nuclear fusion power...
In which state of matter are particles complete...
Van der waals forces are weak interactions betw...
What part of the body does emphysema affect? lungs
What number is the sum of the numbers of proton...
What kind of tool, often based on mathematical ...
An ecosystem consists of all the living things ...
Mesophyll consists mainly of parenchyma cells s...
Antibiotic drugs are usually effective in treat...
What is earth’s geographic north pole also call...
What are the nonliving aspects of the environme...
Chemical reactions follow the laws of what? the...
What do you call a mixture of two or more subst...
What is the water that falls from the sky calle...
What returns blood from capillaries to an atriu...
Hemolymph bathes organs directly in arthropods ...
According to the table, aluminum has an atomic ...
Anemia, leukemia, hemophilia, and sickle-cell d...
What kind of variation does a rate measure? pro...
What is the name of the process that changes so...
What is the term for the gases that surround a ...
Pressure and vibration are examples of what typ...
In the chest, what divides as it enters the lun...
When does an oocyte complete meiosis? after spe...
The electroplating process transfers metal from...
Compression, tension and shear refer to what ty...
Unlike the biological species concept, the ecol...
A basic function of cells includes obtaining wh...
What is the term for a test to see if a scienti...
When a solvent with a gas dissolved in it is he...
How does the bacteria look when seen with the n...
What is a device used to measure temperature ch...
Ebola is an example of a disease spread by what...
The tiny hair present on mucus membranes is kno...
What elements do lipids primarily consist of? c...
Polychaetes make up a large and diverse group. ...
What is the main makeup of the cell membrane? p...
When a host attacks a parasitic bacteria, the b...
Solutions can also become supersaturated , wher...
What is the biggest risk associated with using ...
What property is the result of the force of gra...
What are the cliffs called which are created wh...
When boron10 absorbs a neutron, what does it em...
What is the most common life form in the ocean?...
What circulates with the blood or hemolymph and...
What are the two possible reduction products fo...
Normal blood is comprised of nearly half erythr...
What type of intense storm is a system of winds...
Blood flows into the kidney through which arter...
Growth and development in humans is most rapid ...
What are used to write nuclear equations for ra...
The pull of gravity is expressed as a force of ...
What type of physics explains the behavior of v...
The duodenum has a major role in regulating wha...
What are misfolded versions of normal brain pro...
By impacting plant species and the animals they...
What division of the nervous system controls in...
What occurs when a cold air mass runs into a wa...
What are the tiny sacs in the lungs where gas e...
What is the term for plants that lack vascular ...
Why are continents unable to be pushed down int...
What is it called when a new species arises wit...
In an exothermic reaction, what, specifically, ...
What term describes diseases caused by abnormal...
What is the molecule, dipeptide formed together...
Did the the open circulatory systems of mollusc...
   What kind of weathering is abrasion? mechanical
What are composed of alternating positive and n...
What is the term for a small organelle where pr...
What occurs when the immune system attacks harm...
What is composed of very long strands of glucos...
Where are the terrestrial planets located, in r...
What are the insects that suck up the sap from ...
The energy for an ecosystem can come from sunli...
Phagocytosis, pinocytosis, and receptor-mediate...
What type of machines generally have lower effi...
What is the name of the layer above the mesosph...
What layer of earth contains abundant oxygen, w...
Animals that are endotherms or ectotherms are d...
     What form of energy is light? electromagnetic
What is a common chemical substance on planet e...
Blood calcium levels are tightly regulated by t...
This bodily defense function attacks pathogens ...
Lodgepole cones remain closed until exposed to ...
What is the change of state from a gas to a liq...
The steropodon may have been an ancestor of whi...
Closely associated with "work", what is charact...
What is the time it takes for radioactive subst...
What type of biomes are found in the salt water...
What is formed when an enzyme binds its substra...
What type of rock is a sandstone? sedimentary r...
Which acids provide the molecular blueprints fo...
Cephalopods have three hearts that pump blood o...
Influenza is a type of what, where glycoprotein...
What is the smallest aromatic hydrocarbon? benzene
A hypothesis is scientific only if it can be te...
Aging occurs as cells lose their ability to do ...
The tyndall effect refers to the scattering of ...
Acids are associated with a low number on which...
Said to go hand-in-hand with science, what evol...
       What are the poles labeled? north and south
What is considered to be the "fundamental unit"...
What two states of matter are included in the c...
When matter changes into an entirely different ...
  Phospholipids are unable to mix with what? water
What are molecules that the immune system recog...
The end result of diffusion is an equal concent...
What paired organs that are part of the urinary...
The fungus benefits from the constant supply of...
     Gases can be classifed as real or what? ideal
What is a mutation? change in the nucleotide se...
What are biological catalysts that speeds up bi...
What type of reaction is a transfer of a proton...
What part of the plant, in general, is responsi...
One gram of carbohydrates provides how many cal...
Mushrooms and other fungi obtain energy from wh...
How are protozoa that cause giardiasis spread? ...
What can prevent the passage of molecules and i...
Give an example of air pollution while painting...
What plays a variety of important roles in bioc...
What type of plants grow on other plants? epiph...
What provides a protective covering for the bod...
Uranium is an important part of the process use...
Budding and fission in annelids are examples of...
What is the process by which plants make their ...
In what part of the carbon cycle does carbon mo...
Herbivores and the bacteria that live in their ...
What joins within each testis to form the epidi...
How many layers of phospholipids does the cell ...
What process within cells makes sure that every...
Do amphibians and reptiles maintain a constant ...
Most vascular plants are seed plants, also know...
Centrifuges use what to perform their task? ine...
What are the two unique features of mollusks? m...
Name the two types of water turtles live in. oc...
What structures are located on roof of the naso...
What colorful arc-shaped atmospheric phenomena ...
Rabies transmission occurs when saliva from an ...
Newton realized that the nature of gravity on e...
Where do most of the steps of cellular respirat...
Which metal is not solid at room temperature? m...
Induced mutations are caused by environmental f...
What part of the cell does cellular respiration...
How is the chance of survival affected when ani...
Elements with magic numbers of what tend to hav...
What is the term for the steep sloped side of a...
Pulleys are generally used to do what with obje...
What term describes how close estimates are to ...
What are membrane-bound organelles that can hav...
The structural classification of joints divides...
A catalyst can increase the rate of what, in ge...
    Which crust lies deep inside the ocean? oldest
What is the most significant cause of respirato...
What type of light can you feel as heat but not...
Ionic, molecular, covalent, and metallic are ma...
What forces keep the moon orbiting the earth? g...
Snow and ice may also undergo which process whe...
Electromagnets can be controlled by controlling...
The rate of evolution is influenced by the rate...
What do you call a device that produces a very ...
Bubbles in bread dough are created by what gas ...
      What is the capacity to cause change? energy
Ocean currents transfer heat from the equator t...
In sexual reproduction, two of what unite to pr...
 What are the ends of long bones called? epiphysis
Convection is the transfer of thermal energy by...
What happens when waves reach the shore? topple...
What is an involuntary muscle contraction that ...
What is the purpose of water molds in fresh wat...
What corrosive substances capable of dissolving...
What is always conserved in chemical reactions?...
A polyatomic ion is an ion composed of more tha...
Mutualism is an interaction between individuals...
What are the structural and functional units of...
If hot water becomes trapped, pressure may buil...
What electrical force is responsible for fissio...
Which law states that a pair of alleles is sepa...
Sounds or pictures can be encoded in pulses of ...
What substance are physical objects are made of...
Why do mangrove trees rise high above the water...
What fertilizes an egg during sexual reproducti...
How does the fungus benefit from the photosynth...
What is the name for unsaturated hydrocarbons t...
What is the term for a loop in which a product ...
During what period on earth was coal formed? th...
What is the term for the visible part of the el...
Which vertebrates were the first with four limb...
How do plants support themselves above the grou...
What process starts with glucose and ends with ...
What paired organs help regulate blood pressure...
What is the age-related disorder that causes th...
What are microfilaments made out of? two actin ...
Which bones are the large, curved bones that fo...
What bifurcates into the right and left bronchi...
What is the spreading of white light into its f...
What type of fertilization usually occurs in aq...
What is the energy of motion called? kinetic en...
Overharvesting is especially challenging for sp...
What is a representation of the valence electro...
Massive quanta, like electrons, also act like m...
The simplest example of what type of 'organ sys...
Photographs of the heat emitted by an object ar...
Graphite is a form of elemental carbon what is ...
If everything else stays the same in a system w...
What term means a failure, insufficiency, or de...
The mature pollen grain is composed of two cell...
The neck of the uterus, called the cervix, open...
     Where does the small intestine begin? stomach
What type of shape does a pelvic inlet have? ov...
Which stage of life is typically easier for lea...
What is released from the body during ejaculati...
An organism's unique role in the ecosystem is c...
With the exception of water, what accounts for ...
Atoms are combined, separated, or rearranged du...
       How many electrons does lithium have? three
What is considered the center of the solar syst...
What is the purpose of your body's first line o...
What functions as a framework that reinforces t...
Like quarks, gluons may be confined to systems ...
The ozone layer protects the earth from what? u...
What type of learning is based on past experien...
What type of energy from a warm cola results in...
What is the term for a connection between a neu...
What does the slope of a position-time graph re...
What effect causes an object to appear to have ...
A carcinogen is nything in the environment that...
What does the blue color of the pulmonary arter...
         The trade winds are nearest what? equator
Digestion of polysaccharides and disaccharides ...
What is the term for the smallest blood vessels...
In what type of body of water is most of the ea...
What is one problem with current methods of alu...
What makes the earth habitable for humans? abun...
Which kind of flowers carry both male and femal...
Historically, certain bacteriophages have also ...
An allele is an alternative form of what struct...
All photosynthetic organisms contain a pigment ...
Mammals may either be herbivores, omnivores or ...
What phenomenon sometimes causes harmful allele...
How do you determine the atomic weight of an el...
    Sodium and chlorine combine to make what? salt
What can bacterial stis be cured with? antibiotics
   What do bees do for flowering plants? pollinate
           Where do streams often start? mountains
Deletions remove one or more what from the dna?...
For geneticists, the findings of what massive u...
Does deforestation increase or decrease carbon ...
Which material used in oxyacetylene torches hel...
Peroxisomes perform a couple of different funct...
Ethylene, gibberellins, cytokinins, absciscic a...
What are some uses of chlorine gas? cleaning, d...
Designed to exchange materials, what spongy str...
Even though tellurium does indeed have a greate...
In a fullerene, what atoms are bonded to three ...
What do you call the light particles that trave...
What is a mixture of potassium nitrate, sulfur,...
Opportunistic diseases are usually the direct c...
What is the name of an uncharged particle whose...
The chemical symbol of which ion is written fir...
What is the opposite of rarefaction zones, wher...
What organs secrete hormones that help maintain...
The nuclear envelope is a double-layered plasma...
What is another name for a radioactive isotope?...
Dietary proteins are broken down into amino aci...
Some gametophytes develop underground and form ...
What is the nervous tissue in the brain and in ...
How do planets usually rotate to their orbital ...
What are algae that live in colonies of hundred...
Irrigation can waste a lot of what natural reso...
  What drives puberty in male humans? testosterone
        What is our largest source of energy? coal
Helium-3 is produced by beta decay of a certain...
 What do animals require to grow and develop? food
What term is used to describe the process by wh...
What are the nonliving matter that living thing...
What term is used to express the measurement of...
A pulley is a simple machine that consists of a...
What is another name for a broad explanation th...
       Vinegar is a solution of which acid? acetic
Which system does the large and small intestine...
Particles of matter have the most definite shap...
What body system allows humans to move? muscula...
         High decibel sounds can damage your? ears
What are the dark areas that appear on the sun ...
Fusion is another nuclear process that can be u...
One common form of mate choice, called assortat...
What powerful microscopes use a beam of subatom...
Which scientist built the first telescope? galileo
What type of bacteria change nitrogen gas from ...
If no unbalanced force acts on an object the ob...
What group of organisms was initially misclassi...
How does the epidermis renew its layer? sheddin...
What is it called when crystals form from magma...
What type of symmetry does an octopus have? bil...
What is necessary in a person who wishes to pla...
What is the scientific term for climates with t...
What's the term for a piece of an organism brea...
What animal group can be found in every environ...
Most people can survive only a few days without...
The vegetal pole refers to the concentration of...
What machines have scientist built to smash par...
What type of relationship occurs between organi...
The type of what dictates how far it can penetr...
What role do proteins play in a biological reac...
If you drive or take the bus to school or work,...
Muscles are composed mostly of cells called wha...
Conifers are the most prevalent type of what pl...
What element enters the body when an organism b...
Bonding in molecules with resonance forms is be...
In places like the grand canyon, hard rocks tha...
When two skateboarders push against each other ...
The three layers of protective coverings of the...
A measure of how close a series of measurements...
Ionic compounds contain cations and anions rath...
Are giraffes herbivores or are they omnivores? ...
Respectively, which parts of the circulatory sy...
It was not until the era of the ancient greeks ...
In science, what do we call a mathematical rela...
What conducts nerve-like electrical signals tha...
Found in many products, such as petri dishes, a...
What is the process of capturing a substance or...
What are the layered rocks that form when certa...
Where are the taste buds located in humans? tongue
What describes the way light reflects off of th...
What tissue consists of cells that form the bod...
What forms at the boundary between two air mass...
Nitrogen wastes are produced by the breakdown o...
In the humoral response, what protein substance...
Most ferns produce the same type of spores and ...
          In which way do sunspots occur? in pairs
What is the most important source of electromag...
Conifers are the dominant phylum of gymnosperms...
Connecting to the brainstem and extending down ...
     Where do most cubozoans live? tropical oceans
What type of treatment is being researched that...
What are the names of foul-smelling amines, for...
What's it called when the reaction is sped up u...
What are the smallest particles of water called...
The hormone androgen increases aggressiveness a...
Which currents distribute heat around the plane...
What type of gas is a harmless gas that living ...
What is formed when hot lava cools? mineral cry...
Which radiations helps sterilize medical suppli...
What type of receptors, also known as intracell...
Why is water important for the nervous system? ...
What term means the tendency of a mineral to br...
What are the parts used in electronic devices s...
What type of function does the long bone perfor...
Metabolism includes both anabolic and which oth...
A virus is essentially dna or rna surrounded by...
What is the process of generating electric curr...
Increasing what property of dirt would make it ...
Net production efficiency allows ecologists to ...
Some hormones produced by the anterior pituitar...
A warm-air heating system uses what kind of ene...
Which type of galaxies contain very little gas ...
What is a controlled scientific test that often...
What causes the endometrium to thicken during a...
What process refers to the conversion of atmosp...
What is it called when two species evolve match...
What is the term for water that falls from clou...
Echinoderms lack what type of system that in hu...
What class of invertebrate animals has addition...
The burning of what type of fuels is a major so...
What is the science of classifying living thing...
What is it called when your joints start to wea...
Gas, liquid, and solid describe what property o...
Differences in fitness among different members ...
          What cells carry oxygen? red blood cells
What coenzyme is used in the transfer of energy...
Which asexual reproduction method do starfish u...
What enables gamma rays to pass through hard ma...
What type of mammals includes opossums, kangaro...
What do we call animals that have a backbone an...
Living organisms are affected by changes in ph ...
What makes up most of the interior of a plant? ...
What part of a plant, which is attached to its ...
Experiments have shown that acceleration is exa...
What term describes a disease in which the immu...
Flow of what can introduce alleles that are adv...
A life cycle continues through reproduction and...
Bacteria are like eukaryotic cells in that they...
When zinc metal is mixed with sulfur and heated...
What cage composed of 12 pairs of ribs, with th...
What is the ability of an atom to emit charged ...
Diffusion is an effective transport mechanism o...
In a car race on a circular track, where the st...
What is another name for molecular compounds? c...
The long mouth-tube that some insects use to su...
Cnvs result from regions of what being duplicat...
Insects can have specialized mouthparts, such a...
What is the invisible force that pulls things t...
What do we call the seasonal movement of animal...
What kind of beneficial relationships with othe...
Some marine algae have evolved special structur...
What is the substance called whenatoms of diffe...
What type of solid has atoms arranged in a repe...
What is the process called when secretory cells...
Natural resources that are limited in supply an...
What is a hydrocarbon in which the carbon chain...
The first photosynthetic organisms were not pla...
What is the second stage of photosynthesis? pro...
Which layer is the lithosphere located? outermo...
What is speed at any given instant called? inst...
During birth, a baby passes from the uterus thr...
What type of earthquake creates a tsunami? unde...
What is the smallest of the galilean moons? europa
What is the term for a combination of substance...
Where does the majority of chemical digestion o...
The vertebrate endoskeleton includes a vertebra...
What is defined as the velocity of the object a...
What is the term for an expression showing the ...
 How many pi bonds are found in a triple bond? two
What is formed when an acidic solution and a ba...
What is the causative agent of sleeping sicknes...
Living things that use energy to make food, bot...
In science, what process produces evidence that...
What cellular structure is used during endocyto...
What are unique about prokaryotic cells' organe...
How long ago did the ancestors of mammals evolv...
A d. melanogaster population has an average het...
Traits that are affected by more than one gene ...
Pharmacist and surveyor are two career options ...
What is another term for foodborne illness? foo...
The mechanical advantage of a machine is relate...
What term in physics refers to the use of force...
What is the name of the organelle that helps ma...
What machine is used to determine the calories ...
What is the name of the outer part of the adren...
What kind of energy used heat from magma within...
The primary output of the basal nuclei is to th...
The central nervous system is composed of the b...
A group of genetically identical individuals is...
Where on the earth's surface does the water cyc...
Under which conditions do many bacteria carry o...
Fermat's principle states that what will always...
What trend is occurring involving the extent of...
In vertebrates, cholesterol is synthesized in w...
            What is a group of lions called? pride
Which layer is found below the lithosphere? ast...
What is the name for the nonliving parts of eco...
What do you call the electrons in the outermost...
What are some of the giant fairy rings produced...
What are ingrowths on arthropod exoskeletons to...
Which type of electrons plays the most importan...
What level is greater than 7 in a basic solutio...
What happens to volume as the temperature incre...
What does an array of radio telescopes collect?...
What kind of compounds contain positively and n...
What are formed when crystals precipitate out f...
Roundworms exemplify what type of organization,...
   Where are protons and neutrons located? nucleus
Why do hummingbirds have long narrow bills? to ...
Bivalvia and gastropoda are classes of what phy...
Kinetic energy of moving particles of matter, m...
What is the term for a process that changes som...
The diagnosis of a disease or condition before ...
A heterogeneous mixture of particles of one sub...
On what type of land does runoff cause more ero...
What kind of fats have been implicated in the p...
Inducible enzymes usually function in what type...
Since electrons are charged, their intrinsic sp...
What do bats use to determine the location of o...
Caffeine is an example of what type of drug? ps...
What is the use of technology to change the gen...
What distinctive configuration of dna demonstra...
           Lipids are broken down by what? lipases
What are considered to be the most basic concep...
What are materials that can be magnetized calle...
Toxic compounds in the environment have the mos...
In genetics, what do you call characteristics t...
One gram of proteins provides how many calories...
What kind of succession occurs in an area that ...
A sprain is a strain or tear in what part of th...
Which gland is located in the sella turcica of ...
What is light that has only a single wavelength...
Combined substances are either compounds or wha...
What are the catalysts that occur naturally in ...
Amino acid units in a protein are connected by ...
Magnetism is due to the movement of what within...
Ground subsidence is a consequences of the over...
What organ do most fish have that is used to de...
Excretion is the process of removing excess wat...
What is caused by the same virus that causes ch...
Amniotes are animals that produce eggs with mem...
When water particles become hot enough to overc...
In mammals, what layer protects the egg? zona p...
After infecting a host, what inactive state do ...
Changes in the number of what can lead to disor...
 What are centrioles made from? short microtubules
What of most species are resistant cells that c...
Animals can not produce their own food making t...
In the stomach, which material's arrival trigge...
  What is the term for seed plants? spermatophytes
Cnidarians have a simple digestive system with ...
What is the state of matter that resembles a ga...
Natural selection for what type of trait change...
Systemic veins return blood low in what to the ...
The three long muscles on the back of the knee ...
What shapes, supports, and protects the cell? t...
What process, which results because of great pr...
What do we call the formation of a gas from a l...
 What is a sugar that is found in fruits? fructose
What are unsaturated hydrocarbons with at least...
          Are ecotones wide or narrow? can be both
Which infection of multicellular eukaryotes is ...
What is the term for the breakdown of unstable ...
What are the light wavelengths that the human e...
Most of the energy used by living things comes ...
Population growth is determined by rates of bir...
What works by selecting for alleles that confer...
Paint keeps oxygen and water from coming into d...
What type of electrons do all group 14 elements...
List the three major types of blood vessels. ar...
Acetone is the simplest type of what organic co...
What term is used to describe birds that hunt, ...
What do you call a compound that contains both ...
What system consists of structures that produce...
The medieval catapult has a heavy ballast on on...
What period starts after the baby is born, and ...
What do you call the lightless part of the ocea...
The creation of a voltage across a current-carr...
Pavement cells, large, irregularly shaped paren...
What do convergent plate boundaries with trench...
Around what percentage of the earth's surface w...
What celestial structure does not give off its ...
Which rule is a result of trends in energies an...
What is the second most common type of cancer i...
What is the main difference between prokaryotic...
What is a layer of saturated porous rock? an aq...
What element, which often forms polymers, has a...
Early in the development of a human fetus, the ...
What type of disease can be treated by radioact...
What theory of gases describes this state of ma...
When egg laying and mating occur together, as i...
What control reproductive cycles, which are in ...
Which gas is responsible for global warming? ca...
The short length of what in women is the best e...
What type of cells are flagella rare in? eukary...
Solids and liquids are phases of matter that ha...
What do many fungi secrete that break down comp...
All three types of convergent plate boundaries ...
 How do plants obtain their energy? photosynthesis
The mouth, stomach, esophagus, small intestine,...
An environment in which cells neither sink nor ...
Particulates from cigarette smoke that enter wh...
Terrestrial arthropods generally have internal ...
What are the two groups that tripoblastic eucoe...
What part of the cell is surrounded by a membra...
What are angiosperms most important function to...
How many atoms are evenly organized around a ce...
What are formed by atoms gaining electrons? anions
What type of fish are the majority of living sp...
What are the light highlands of the moon called...
The shape of earlobes is an example of what kin...
Mosses, liverworts, and hornworts are examples ...
Release of spores in a suitable environment wil...
Why are living things considered to be renewabl...
What is the term for the metabolic reaction whe...
Name the three types of muscle tissue. skeletal...
Cellular respiration and photosynthesis are imp...
What are the winds that occur in belts that enc...
Human mammary glands can produce what substance...
What is a prerequisite for fertilization to tak...
Water is allowed to flow downhill into a large ...
The movement of bone away from the midline of t...
What occurs when so much water enters a stream ...
What is the cause of the “heartburn” that occur...
By 180 million years ago, pangaea began to do w...
What has a single voltage source and a single r...
What property is associated with the number of ...
During an earthquake, wet soils become like wha...
           What helps sound travel in waves? gases
What kind of relationship between glucagon and ...
The yellowstone hot spot is a famous example of...
Ionic compounds take on the form of extended th...
Electric generators convert what type of energy...
What can autographs do that heterotrophs cannot...
The primary amine in which the nitrogen atom is...
What is formed when each sodium atom donates it...
The fujita scale measures the intensity of what...
What allows the electrons to move in an electro...
The simplest type of battery contains what? sin...
A newborn baby has a soft spot on the top of it...
Microwaves are converted into what kind of ener...
What is the process of moving air into and out ...
What plays the same role in rotational motion t...
                      Ions are charged what? atoms
What occurs when a parent cell splits into two ...
What kind of scientist is concerned with facets...
      What was the first antiseptic called? phenol
Which model helps explain molecules with double...
Name the plant considered to be the ancestor of...
How can bacterial stis usually be cured? with a...
Where do organisms acquire toxic substances fro...
What was the first widely used antibiotic? peni...
Decay of what provides some of earth's internal...
Plants are complex organisms with tissues organ...
 What are mammals that lay eggs called? monotremes
What do monotremes have instead of a uterus and...
What part of the body controls the responses of...
What kind of reactions absorb energy from their...
Hybrid orbitals are formed only in which type o...
Most autotrophs make their "food" through which...
Because heating results in a greater fraction o...
What is the term for a theoretical framework fo...
In which specific organs are hormonal cells loc...
Found in plants and algae, chloroplasts are the...
Water behind a dam has potential energy. moving...
What part of the cell helps it keep its shape? ...
What is the term for crops that are genetically...
What is the rate at which a specific allele app...
Memory t cells are long-lived and can even pers...
What fluid becomes less viscous, allowing for b...
Chains of small molecules called nucleotides ma...
What is the preferred method for separating lat...
When na 2 hpo 24 − (the weak acid) comes into c...
What system is designed to facilitate the trans...
   What are the sporophytes in ferns? leafy plants
The measure of how much a given volume of matte...
What are two major categories of mutations? ger...
Chemical equations in which heat is shown as ei...
Clams, oysters, scallops, and mussels are examp...
What is it called when a charge moves against a...
The as yet undiscovered grand unified theory is...
What basic cell structure is made up of a phosp...
Earthworms and ants possess what type of bodies...
Gfci stands for ground-fault circuit what? inte...
What genetic unit is formed when the dna double...
What are fresh water biomes defined by? low sal...
What is the amount of time a molecule stays in ...
What is the study of chemical processes that oc...
What prohibits knocking out genes? ethical cons...
The populations that live in the same area form...
The rate at which an unstable isotope decays is...
If two chlorine atoms share their unpaired elec...
How many pairs of upper jaws do insects have? t...
Where does the shoot system get the water and m...
Potential energy is present in objects that are...
What are flightless birds that are strong swimm...
What describes how close an estimate is to a kn...
What is the measure of the energy released when...
In what type of population do allele and genoty...
What bodily substance is formed from cells, and...
What is the electrode at which reduction occurs...
Smog is one example of what type of pollution? air
What do you call a circuit that consists of one...
What type of input is not required during passi...
Which organ of our body is harmed if you get me...
What is the unique layer of nerve cells coverin...
The direction of the rotation of hurricanes is ...
The name of which ion always comes first? posit...
What is the most familiar fibrous protein found...
Ice floats because it is less what than liquid ...
   Where are the pharyngeal slits located? pharynx
What filters pathogens and worn out red blood c...
Muscle atrophy due to age is called what? sarco...
Lead shielding is used to block what type of ra...
What sulfur compound occurs in volcanic gases a...
What bodily structures consist of the endotheli...
The extent to which a substance may be dissolve...
What do you call cellular respiration that does...
What is the name for creatures such as bears an...
What are compounds with the same number of carb...
Developing cars that run on hydrogen gas can he...
What also receives input from other areas of th...
What type of science is the application of scie...
What kind of charge do iconic compounds have? n...
A catalyst decreases the amount of what resourc...
Ribozymes are rna molecules that catalyze what?...
In what state of matter is butter at room tempe...
Ordinary table salt is called what? sodium chlo...
Secondary pollutants form from chemical reactio...
What is the sum of the massess of the atoms in ...
Neutrophils and lymphocytes are examples of wha...
What is the space around the magnet called? mag...
What cannot exist between energy levels? electrons
Transferring what from sodium to chlorine decre...
What is the name for membrane-bound sacs that f...
What structures include the vagina, uterus, ova...
Where do the steps in the water cycle begin? th...
What does the structure of a protein start with...
What is the small intestine lined with that hel...
What visual property of soil indicates fertilit...
What waves require a material medium such as wa...
Which continent is covered with an ice cap? ant...
What type of organisms do carnivores feed on? a...
What is the ability to be attracted by a magnet...
What consists of the different species within a...
       What do prevailing winds influence? climate
What do you call a process that uses microorgan...
What is the term for a disturbance in matter th...
Exemplified by cesium, which ignites spontaneou...
What is the term for the use of two or more lew...
All eukaryotic cells have mitochondria, but not...
Which part of the body of amphibians, easily ab...
What element do plants use to store energy as a...
What is the term for the deepest places on eart...
The posterior pituitary is an extension of what...
What occurs when the cartilage at the ends of t...
What do the planets orbit around in the solar s...
Which period after birth has the most rapid gro...
What does sexual reproduction with gametes and ...
    What keeps the earth orbiting the sun? gravity
The depth of the atmosphere is greatest where? ...
The lungs, kidneys, skin, and large intestine a...
   What is the male gamete called in humans? sperm
The lifecycle of an ascomycete is characterized...
What does the concentration of a solution repre...
What is the term for any behavior that occurs o...
What do we call the movement of individuals int...
Enzymes, proteins, electron carriers, and pumps...
Is purifying water a simple or complicated proc...
What is a sac-like organ at the end of the esop...
Substances may be either elements or what? pure...
Visible light can be split into colors with the...
Marshes, swamps, and bogs are types of what? we...
What is the chief organ of the urinary system? ...
What type of winds blow over a limited area? lo...
In terms of scientific investigation, things yo...
What is the final product of the calvin cycle? ...
The nail bed is a specialized structure of the ...
The anatomical arrangement of capillaries and a...
What term describes all but the sex chromosomes...
The sun and all objects held by it's gravity ma...
From the uterus, where do sperm travel next? fa...
What completes the process as undigested materi...
What is a thin layer of gas that surrounds eart...
            What does all matter consist of? atoms
What do you call a system that has one or more ...
The longest period of daylight hours occurs at ...
       H2o is the chemical formula for what? water
What occurs when light interacts with our atmos...
Layers of placental transfer cells help transpo...
The kayak’s motion in the water is an example o...
Introduction genetics is the study of what? her...
A _______ of biology is a fundamental concept t...
Ionic liquids heating a salt to its melting poi...
What is the term for the temperature at which a...
    What does glycolysis generate in phase ii? atp
These vacuoles take water from the cytoplasm an...
Where does the purple color in quartz come from...
   What is the largest part of the brain? cerebrum
Data from paleontology offer insights into the ...
One crystalline form of calcium carbonate is th...
Human evolution shows that evolutionary changes...
When bacteria enter the bloodstream, the result...
Solid-state radiation detectors convert ionizat...
Most, if not all, of the extant animal phyla to...
What is the name for the energy required for an...
Carbon atoms have six neutrons as well as how m...
What term means that only molecules or ions of ...
What holds together the small molecules called ...
What type of cell contains a nucleus? eukaryoti...
What method uses a retailer's coding method to ...
The level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere i...
           Who controls prey population? predators
In which organs does gas exchange take place be...
The frequency of sound waves is measured in wha...
Does an increase in temperature speed up or slo...
An obstacle or opening that is shorter than the...
Corals build hard exoskeletons that grow to bec...
What is the name of the procedure where an unkn...
While spermatogenesis produces four haploid spe...
What are groups of tens to hundreds of thousand...
What is the general name for the homogeneous mi...
Life itself could not exist without what energy...
What does power imply is happening to energy? b...
Because the masses of subatomic particles are s...
Which organ breaks down amino acids and toxins ...
Which compound has positively and negatively ch...
What system of the body is responsible for prod...
What happens to a substance in a liquid state w...
Sublimation and deposition involve direct trans...
What is the process by which plants and animals...
Which glands sit atop the kidneys and are compo...
What is it that surrounds cells and serve to ke...
What is the gland in the chest behind the breas...
What promotes cell division and are necessary f...
What map shows the locations of several genes o...
Although they are as different as deserts and w...
What is the name of the bone that forms the for...
What is the name for a molecule with two atoms?...
What type of motor is used in most household de...
What process determines the dna sequence of an ...
What disease can too little calcium cause? oste...
In a scientific investigation, what do you call...
The volume of blood each ventricle pumps per mi...
How does consuming enterobactin help our body? ...
Green cyanobacteria on a lake produce food thro...
Because the human body is about 70% water by ma...
The process of making a polymer is called what?...
Behind a ship, what is the giant rectangular bu...
What is it called when multiple faults are loca...
Binding of acetylcholine to receptors on the mu...
Most tunicates live a sessile existence in shal...
   Ginkgo trees are gymnosperms with broad? leaves
Recrystallization is a process that can remove ...
What is one of the most common biochemical comp...
What man-made structures orbit all of the inner...
What basic structures take in nutrients from th...
What does ubiquitin indicate about a protein's ...
Which vertebrae carry the greatest amount of bo...
Because of it's repeating pattern, what is mend...
Where does an electron move to after it absorbs...
  What is needed by all known forms of life? water
What lengths are positive for converging lens a...
Where does most geological activity takes place...
Birds have light-weight bones that are filled w...
Why does a large log burn relatively slowly com...
What is usually necessary to develop cancer? mu...
Consumers are organisms that depend on other or...
Wine, air, and gunpowder are all examples of wh...
What is the term for anything that can cause ca...
What system of organs delivers blood to all cel...
What part of a chromosome exists in different s...
What do the ears have to be protected from in o...
What is the first and longest phase of mitosis ...
Plants reduce nitrate back to what before incor...
Growth factors and certain plant and animal hor...
When a wave travels down a string, the string v...
Generally speaking, electronegativity values __...
The most magnetic material in nature is what? m...
Goldfish, tuna, salmon, perch, and cod are exam...
A bicycle is an example of a compound machine m...
What is the term for a system maintaining a sta...
When carbon atoms are not bonded to as many hyd...
When magma heats groundwater, it may come to th...
Fish have a circulatory system with a two-chamb...
What is the measure of water potential? megapas...
What is the largest organelle in a eukaryotic c...
Neurologists are physicians who specialize in d...
How is flowing water and blowing wind similar? ...
    What is the study of heredity called? genetics
What is a disease characterized by high concent...
What is responsible for the properties of metal...
What is the first year of life following birth ...
Where are electrons located in relation to the ...
What type of switch automatically opens a circu...
The net effect of aldosterone is to conserve an...
An element that is generally a poor conductor o...
An electron in an atom is completely described ...
Organic compounds are molecules built around wh...
What is the term for the application of science...
What sorts of collisions do not result in an ov...
The human genome has how many more alu elements...
What are all of the digits that can be known wi...
The human male and female reproductive cycles a...
What property does liquid display when it inter...
Where does chemical digestion mainly occur? sma...
What is the name of the first leaf developed in...
Interconnected pathways through which carbon is...
Composed largely of the polysaccharide chitin, ...
A wall of rocks or concrete that juts out into ...
Oils are liquid lipids that plants use to store...
A perfectly inelastic collision reduces interna...
Which theorem states that, if a population meet...
What is greatest source of hazardous waste? ind...
A circuit that consists of two loops is called ...
Hyenas and cockroaches are examples of what dec...
What helps to convert some molecules to forms t...
As hydrostatic pressure in the kidneys increase...
What is the percentage of production transferre...
What is the metal part of the compound named as...
How do plants and algae both make food? photosy...
All dinosaurs (except those which led to birds)...
What is destroying the layer of good ozone? air...
In which state does matter need to be for nucle...
Just as salty taste involves perception of sodi...
How is eye color in humans determined? multiple...
What term is given to flatworms because they la...
Some soil water can flow through easily. what k...
What is contained in the cavity of a long bone'...
Bacterial contamination of foods can lead to di...
What can be looked at to see a record of how ho...
What natural destructive element cuts away at r...
What do we call an interruption in the normal c...
Mixtures that have the same composition through...
The wavelength of a what type of wave can be me...
What kind of muscle is found in the heart? cardiac
Streamlines are smooth and continuous when flow...
What does water treatment do to water? removes ...
What is named after the type of enzyme they int...
What types of genes encode transcription factor...
What factor largely determines the distinguishi...
What is the term for vascular plants that repro...
What is thought to be the oldest eukaryotes? pr...
Which landmark book on evolution via natural se...
Archaeans help break down sewage in waste treat...
If an atom gains electrons, it becomes what? an...
The formula mass of a covalent compound is also...
Both pathways that isolate a population reprodu...
Common disease of what system include asthma, p...
Translucent matter is matter that transmits and...
Diet correlates with the length of what organ s...
What is the process of processing used material...
What equals the mass of the object (in kilogram...
Where does visible light fall in between on the...
Having polar bonds may make a covalent compound...
Shortening of muscle fibers is called what?` co...
About how many thunderstorms are there each yea...
What are a group of protists whose monophyly is...
What is measured by the intensity of the sound ...
Parasitic fungi often cause illness and may eve...
Coronary heart disease is caused when what bloc...
    Air is an example of what state of matter? gas
What descend from clouds in funnel-like shapes ...
What term describes the long-term, predictable ...
Between meals, when the level of blood glucose ...
Where does the krebs cycle take place? in the m...
What state of matter is like a liquid in that p...
What is the term for a natural situation which ...
Digestion of carbohydrates is performed by seve...
What is defined as a phasic change in muscle to...
What is a force that opposes motion between any...
What are structures that have a common function...
Which type of cell division halves the number o...
Objects in motion that return to the same posit...
What is the relationship of multiple action pot...
Plant cells have cell walls that are made of wh...
What disease associated with smoking involves b...
Molds and yeasts are organisms in what kingdom?...
Bacteria can be used to make cheese from milk. ...
Independent assortment occurs when what go to o...
What term is used to describe an immunity that ...
Changes in temperature, ph, and exposure to che...
What term is used to describe phages capable of...
Many observatories are built on high mountains ...
Like earth, the moon has a distinct crust, mant...
Reflection, refraction, and diffraction are exa...
What type of molecules are found in the hydrati...
Tuataras, lizards, and snakes are members of wh...
What do waves deposit in relatively quiet areas...
What is the smallest unit of structure and func...
What kind of fertilization do birds have? inter...
What is the term for an organism, or single liv...
Which of newton's laws states that the quantity...
What is the force that slows down or stops moti...
What is it called when poles are in opposite po...
  What is a feature that prokaryotes lack? nucleus
They had demonstrated that particles smaller th...
The wrist and base of the hand are formed by wh...
What does an underwater spider use to breathe a...
Amphibians are ectothermic vertebrates that div...
  Water plus other substances makes what? solution
What type of polarization does a negative objec...
What type of particles can a beta particle be? ...
The heme parts of a hemoglobin molecule bind wi...
What is the term for flowering seed plants? ang...
Do nonvascular or vascular plants have a domina...
In mismatch repair, other enzymes remove and re...
What two structures are found on mars? volcanoe...
What substances dissociate into ions when disso...
Organisms that depend on other organisms for fo...
What is the growing root tip protected by? root...
Ocean water appears cyan because microbes in th...
Both energy and heat can be expressed in units ...
In fact, when sitting in the sun, many ectother...
In binary fission how many times does a cell sp...
 What do nonvascular plants reproduce with? spores
The most powerful or influential individual in ...
What is the first stage of cellular respiration...
In which direction does heat always flow throug...
Like sharks, nearly the entire human skeleton d...
When this forms underground, volcanoes rise? magma
Hormones produced by what gland in the neck inc...
When the ventricles begin to contract, pressure...
What is the skin of most reptiles covered with?...
Gasoline, natural gas, fuel oil, diesel fuel, j...
Nearly all life processes depend on what substa...
What has increased in the atmosphere throughout...
Which two states of matter have definite volume...
Tendon, cartilage, and bone are examples of wha...
What is the sac-like organ at the end of the es...
Which class of acids acetic acid (ch 3 cooh) be...
What happens to the total energy of the system ...
What type of species can alternate between medu...
Extensive and intensive are categories of prope...
The vertebrate circulatory system enables blood...
By what kind of change can a chemical change be...
Earthquakes at convergent plate boundaries mark...
   New seafloor forms when what object cools? lava
What are groups of atoms that behave as a singl...
Hormones cause cellular changes by binding to r...
Food provides what type of energy needed by org...
  Catabolic reactions involve breaking what? bonds
Scientists explain the world based on what? obs...
What is the general name for saturated hydrocar...
Changing electric and mnagnetic fields radiate ...
What significant part of the cell do prokaryoti...
Where do ectotherms get most of their heat? ext...
  What layer is above the mesosphere? thermosphere
What is produced by leydig cells in the embryon...
What is a continuous flow of electric charges c...
What causes high winds and monsoon storms in th...
What are the three most common protective devic...
Which veins return oxygen-rich blood from the l...
Makemake and pluto are classified as what type ...
What do you call the entire range of wavelength...
Joules and calories are the units of what? ener...
The brain and spinal cord are part of what syst...
The two parathyroid glands are located behind w...
Fission is a method of what type of reproductio...
The best method for preparing pure phosphorous ...
What bonds result from the overlap of atomic or...
What is a cluster of neuron cell bodies in the ...
Unlike the passive form, the sodium-potassium p...
On insects, what are the openings on the sides ...
Salts of weak acids or bases can affect the aci...
Flowers, double fertilization, and fruits are u...
What is most often the cause of encephalitis? v...
Why do microwaves have a higher energy than rad...
     What is cytology. the study of cell structure
When solids change to gasses, they generally pa...
What is the structure which hangs from a newly ...
What is made up of the pinna, ear canal, and ea...
What type of solvents is glucose insoluble in? ...
What organ is divided into the duodenum, the je...
Ectotherms undergo a variety of changes at the ...
A comet striking the earth may have caused mass...
Normal body temperature is ideal for most of wh...
What separates and strongly unites bodies of ad...
About 20 percent of carbon dioxide is bound by ...
Which outermost secondary xylem layers transpor...
What did volcanic gases help to form on earth? ...
What is formed when the ceiling of an undergrou...
What type of muscle makes up most of the heart?...
What measures the amount of water in the air? h...
Most terrestrial vertebrates have what type of ...
What process joins two haploid gametes into a d...
Planets are held by the force of gravity in ell...
          What is the fastest land animal? cheetah
What is the process by which the remains of liv...
Meters, such as those in analog fuel gauges on ...
What causes reduction of elasticity in all orga...
How many protons and electrons each do carbon a...
What thickens the cortex around the inner edge ...
What value of dissolved substances is higher th...
Is an acid lower or higher than 7 on the ph sca...
Although what biochemicals circulate throughout...
The right atrium receives all of the systemic v...
Tissue is made up of layers of tightly packed c...
Most lipid hormones are derived from what? chol...
A fact or question is only considered science i...
Which branch of science is the study of energy,...
What is the smallest unit capable of life known...
Making associations between experiences is ofte...
The spectrum is made up of discrete lines repre...
In the field of biodiversity, "richness" and "a...
Nitrogen is an important macronutrient because ...
What is the term for rotation of a bone toward ...
What cause rabies, measles, diarrheal diseases,...
What are the two methods in which mutations ari...
Water follows where sodium ions lead, due to wh...
What group of simple organisms recycles nutrien...
What is the term for dry climate regions at hig...
Changing the frequency of sound waves, will cha...
   What does the term porifera means? pore-bearing
What zone is the narrow strip along the coastli...
Integral and peripheral proteins are associated...
What effect describes how earth’s rotation stee...
What type of shape does sodium chloride have? c...
In what form of matter is hydrogen at room temp...
What is the smallest contractile portion of a m...
     Which is the fourth planet from the sun? mars
What type of sti is characterized by blisters? ...
Radioactive isotopes are characterized by an un...
What exposure risk comes with aerobic respirati...
What are mammals called that reproduce by layin...
In multicellular organisms, only mutations in c...
What type of invertebrates are jellyfish and co...
Living things are highly organized following a ...
Carbonic acid can dissociate into hydrogen carb...
Respiration cycles the organic carbon into whic...
What type of bonds between the bases at the cen...
What are changes in makeup and chemical propert...
Mammals generate heat primarily by maintaining ...
The fossil record indicates that anthropoids be...
What is the oxygen carrying component of red bl...
What is a disease in which the immune system ma...
The umbilical cord connects the fetus to what s...
The vector of what organism is significant on a...
What is the smallest particle of an element tha...
What is already causing food and water shortage...
What is the foundation species of coral reef ec...
When the ph of precipitation is lowered because...
What type of barrier physically blocks pathogen...
In what do a roundworm's eggs pass from host to...
What is the name of the command center of the c...
   What does the ending 'ology' refer to? study of
What is the only natural phenomenon that causes...
What is the hypothesis that states that the bio...
The kinetic energy of molecules is generally pr...
Several neuropeptides, relatively short chains ...
       What kind of process is boiling? isothermal
In science, what is constantly tested, sometime...
What is the name of the process in which both t...
What must be present on a plant where ladybugs ...
In birds, lightweight air-filled bones and a la...
Chemical and solar cells are devices that chang...
Stoichiometric coefficients are used in chemica...
Like acetic acid, pentanoic acid is what kind o...
A solute generally has what effect on the boili...
What type of climates are found around the equa...
What kind of planet do we consider ceres to be?...
How many pairs of legs does a millipede have pe...
What is the fertilization step in the sexual re...
How do you add two dimensional vectors? geometr...
The fact that all living things share the same ...
When the monocilia are defective, what is disru...
What is a copy of an object that is formed by r...
Hypoxia is a condition of the reduced supply of...
What part of an atom is positive due to the pre...
Organs of what male biological system include t...
At certain times of year, a stream or river may...
What are the major types anchoring proteins? cl...
The process where an atomic nucleus breaks apar...
Sugar and starch are examples of what type of n...
What term describes a property of a liquid base...
What do a river and all its tributaries make up...
What structure is the site of all of the basic ...
How does the magnetic field produced by a curre...
What are the 3 types of volcanoes? composite, s...
The fast motion of gas particles gives them a r...
When do alkane reactions usually occur? under e...
What do you call scientists that study the weat...
What replicates in the s phase of interphase, r...
What is located beneath the lithosphere? asthen...
What travels 9.5 trillion kilometers a year? light
What population on earth is already harming the...
What is the female reproductive structure of a ...
Red giants are stars that fuse what element int...
What normal bodily occurrence can cause skeleta...
What is the outer layer of the adrenal gland ca...
Why would prokaryotes be chemotrophs instead of...
How do wolves learn to hunt as a group? observa...
What is the common term for water in its solid ...
If an air mass forms over an ocean it is called...
What is the middle layer that hair pass through...
High per capita use of what means the ecologica...
Lakes, ponds, streams, springs, and wetlands ar...
What is the the force of attraction that holds ...
What is the ability of a material to return to ...
How much of the soil is made of pieces of rock ...
Comprised mainly of collagen and associated wit...
Bacterial dna is contained in one circular chro...
During which phase is the moon more than half l...
What force is caused by microscopic bumps, lump...
What is the period during which humans become s...
What is another word for brooding- keeping eggs...
Which type of natural disturbance in temperate ...
   What is another name for mother of pearl? nacre
What type of salts are secreted into the small ...
Lavas that cool underwater are called what? pil...
         What is oceanography the study of? oceans
What tissue system has neither dermal nor vascu...
Around 97% of all water on earth is what type o...
     Which type of diabetes is more common? type 2
All waves are the way energy travels through wh...
What is the cause of behavioral difference betw...
What is the term for the process in which gluco...
Skeletal muscle tissue is arranged in bundles s...
What element on the periodic table forms the mo...
As the number of unpaired electrons increases, ...
What kind of container is used to measure heat ...
In the mammal family, what is the name for hoof...
In the nematic phase, only the long axes of the...
What term means the force of attraction that ho...
In single-celled organisms, plasma membrane ext...
What is defined as male gametes that form in th...
All planets exhibit the same or nearly the same...
What do you call a change in the dna or rna seq...
What is produced when hydrogen gas and oxygen g...
What is the term for the buildup of electric ch...
What is the basis of the classification of prot...
What is the movement of animals from one place ...
What does the respiratory system exchange betwe...
In the body, second in volume to intracellular ...
How many sperm does it take to fertilize an egg? 1
The volume of a regularly shaped solid can be c...
What is approximately the average stroke volume...
Systemic communication through the phloem helps...
What structure shows the bonding between atoms,...
What is a thick, dark brown or black liquid fou...
What are indestructible and constantly in motio...
What kind of reaction do you see when the conce...
What part of a plant protects the plant cell, m...
The process of splitting atoms creates what kin...
Chromosomal alterations are mutations that chan...
When an atom gains or loses an electron it beca...
What is a type of cell that supports neurons an...
The coordinated activities of the legume and th...
The purpose of scientific investigations genera...
The most common curved mirrors are what? spherical
What type of tissue covers the outside of a pla...
In a molecular compound, electrons are shared b...
What process does water undergo to leave behind...
What type of proteins bind to foreign substance...
Photosynthesis involves reactions that are depe...
Like simple hormone pathways, hormone cascade p...
The ocean basin begins where the ocean meets wh...
What causes cobalt chloride to turn pink? co 2+...
What bodily defense can be acquired in an activ...
Like the stem, what basic plant structure conta...
What kind of symmetry do echinoderm larvae have...
Reducing waste, as well as reusing and recyclin...
What is a person who studies the frequency and ...
In adaptive radiation, what is the name of the ...
The structures of both trifluoramine and hydrox...
    What protects reptiles from drying out? scales
How many chromosomes do bacterial dna have? one...
               What makes blue cheese blue? fungus
What type of evolution often happens in species...
Helicopter pilots can recover from piloting err...
         Rise divided by run is called what? slope
   Where did west nile first appear? north america
How do cancer cells typically spread from one p...
The rate of the accumulation of neutral what se...
The transmitted light strikes a photoelectric t...
About how many grams of carbohydrates are in a ...
What is the smallest unit of a chemical element...
What is the term for a scalar measure of how qu...
A redox reaction rearranges what subatomic part...
What substances digest the food in the vacuole ...
What type of force allows non-polar molecules t...
What is a thin layer of bacteria that sticks to...
The amount of water vapor in the air and the te...
 An rna codon reading guu encodes for what? valine
Scanning acoustic microscopes use what kind of ...
The contents of which organ are mixed every 20 ...
  How many chambers are in a reptiles heart? three
What is the opening in the front of the eye cal...
When salinity and pressure increase, or when te...
The bending of a wave around the edges of an op...
What controls the shape of a developing zygote ...
What happens to structural genes in the presenc...
What type of pressure may build up inside the c...
What is the process by which plants make their ...
Conductivity, oxidation state and physical appe...
What specific part of the brain regulates the e...
Chemical reactions follow which laws? thermodyn...
There are three basic types of hormones: lipid-...
Fertilization occurs when an egg and sperm come...
The explosion of nitroglycerin, which releases ...
What done ozone help protect against? ultraviol...
What category of food includes sugars, starches...
What are substances that the body needs for ene...
What law shows the relationships among temperat...
What 2 things keep polar bears warm in their ar...
What two things are a phospholipid molecules co...
When plants reproduce, the offspring has charac...
Algae are like plants mainly because they conta...
The radius of an atom is defined as one-half th...
What is it called when a mistake occurs in dna ...
Birds are thought to have evolved around 150 mi...
The mostly subterranean lifestyle of stone plan...
What is the term for the process in which an ar...
All the major landmasses moved together to form...
A problem with using food chains to describe ec...
What is the practical application of scientific...
In plants, a cell plate is formed during cell c...
What is the type of volcano with a tall cone sh...
The amount of what entering the eyes helps cont...
Protists are classified as animal-like, plant-l...
Satellite and schwann cells are the two types o...
What compound has positive and negative ions? i...
What can be calculated given the mass and speed...
Earthquakes mark the motions of colliding plate...
     The ambrosia beetle bores holes in? tree bark
What effect, related to weather forecasting, oc...
What is the science of how traits are passed fr...
When an electron transitions from an excited st...
Water from the land and oceans enters the atmos...
What country put seven salyut space stations in...
The result of what, in places like the amazon r...
What does rising and sinking air influence in a...
Refracting and reflecting telescopes are optica...
Via what process do substance move from one cel...
What is a stellar remnant that is very dense? w...
What methods allow scientists to add to scienti...
What is the largest level of organization? orga...
Living species of chordates are classified into...
What force explains why a tennis ball bounces d...
The term ion applies to entire molecules that a...
Silicon and germanium react with nitrogen at hi...
What bond is the force of attraction that holds...
What is the pairing of an adult male to an adul...
The cell expels waste and other particles throu...
What are diodes, transistors, and integrated ci...
Shedding of dead cells ensures constant renewal...
What causes cumulus clouds to grow upward? conv...
What term is used to describe a region getting ...
What is the name for compounds that contain onl...
What human disease is caused by a defective enz...
Individuals with sickle cell anemia have cresce...
Nearly all weather occurs in the lower part of ...
For skeletal development, the most common templ...
The body's second line of defense against patho...
Hiv is a retrovirus, which means it reverse tra...
Plants can tell the time of day and time of yea...
In eukaryotes, the major mechanism for shufflin...
The vas deferens and ejaculatory ducts transpor...
What do nearly all animals have in common with ...
What are the secretions released by the endocri...
What are chromosomes in the same pair called? h...
What do you call plastids that contain the gree...
What important and unusual physical property (f...
What are changes in membrane potential that var...
         The moon has a crust, mantle, and a? core
What type of coal is formed at lower temperatur...
What can sodium ions not pass through? nonpolar...
What happens when the kidneys cannot remove was...
  What is another name for nearsightedness? myopia
What is the innermost layer of the sun called? ...
 What device is used to study charge? electroscope
What term is used to describe large numbers of ...
What is the tiny male gametophyte enclosed in a...
When zinc reacts with hydrochloric acid, the re...
Structural adaptations in flying animals often ...
What diagram is used to reflect evolutionary re...
What is the energy called that is stored in mat...
What is the term for traits that show wide vari...
Which system in the human body consists of the ...
 Volume is another way of measuring what? material
What do you call a science that aims to find so...
What term describes weathering that occurs as w...
How many pairs of chromosomes are found in huma...
An aqueous solution is a homogeneous mixture in...
What happens to light when it reflects from a r...
Isothermal expansion is a process occurring wit...
Nearly all fish reproduce sexually and have wha...
Cilia and flagella are generally associated wit...
Do particles collide more in two reactants when...
The process of moving from areas of high amount...
Vascular tissue allowed these plants to do what...
What were the first forms of life on earth? pro...
What warms the base of the mantle creating conv...
What do we call an incorrect test result that s...
The conversion factor between solubility and mo...
What describes the process of vesicles fusing w...
Out of the four ways that allele frequencies of...
What kind of bond doesn't form molecules, but i...
Where does the natural synthesis of lactose occ...
The ratio between the radii of a wheel and axle...
What is the first stage of cellular respiration...
Many species use their body shape and coloratio...
A reference point is used in measurement to mak...
Why do adult herbivores in a herd surround thei...
When orders are sent from your brain to your le...
What is the leading cause of soil erosion? runn...
What class of organisms help decompose matter t...
A pedigree is a chart which shows the inheritan...
The release of calcium ions initiates what? mus...
The electron released during beta decay is not ...
What is created by the polymerization of glucos...
Fungi reproduce asexually by fragmentation and ...
The desire to understand how and why things hap...
The scientific revolution took place where star...
Ionic bonds are electrostatic attractions betwe...
What is the theoretical event that began the un...
In the cardiovascular system, net filtration pr...
       What attracts the earth to the sun? gravity
Fermat’s principle states that light will alway...
Many enzymes require nonprotein helpers for wha...
What is often a result of untreated atheroscler...
The hormones epinephrine and norepinephrine are...
How many possible alleles do the majority of hu...
What occurs during the new moon and full moon, ...
Alleles that carry deadly diseases are usually ...
What releases fatty acids and other components ...
What kind of energy comes from the position of ...
What does interstellar medium consist of? thinl...
Sickle-cell disease significantly impairs the f...
What is the enlarged tip of the penis called? g...
What do you call the point at which the entire ...
At how many places does points source pollution...
What do monarch butterfly larvae depend on for ...
As lava cools, tiny iron-rich crystals line up ...
What do we call the amount of time a substance ...
Osmotic pressure is important in biological sys...
When does the diploid zygote form? after the po...
What is the minimum number of times a partial l...
Microscopes were first developed in the early 1...
What do we call the temperature at which a subs...
What is the small, dense region at the center o...
By multiplying the force applied by the perpend...
What carry messages from our sensory organs and...
What do you call the space around a charged par...
Natural convection is driven by what forces? bu...
Materials that can be magnetized are called? fe...
The overall purpose of the light-dependent reac...
        Jellyfish belong to which phylum? cnidaria
Along with changes in the shape of the resonant...
What intensifies the response during homeostasi...
What is captured by the sticky structure at the...
What is the term for a sac filled with fluid or...
What organ protects the body from injury, water...
In which phase do the sister chromatids separat...
Pinocytosis or "cellular drinking," occurs when...
Adult tunicates also develop a sac, called a wh...
What is the common measure of how hot or cold s...
Aquatic biomes in the ocean are called what? ma...
Oxygen reaches what veinless part of the eye by...
Compound light microscopes use lenses to do wha...
What are the "code words" of the genetic code? ...
What processes allow for the greatest range of ...
What property does coulomb electric force depen...
What is the process of changing something from ...
What are the two divisions of vascular plants? ...
What contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a...
During interphase of what process, each chromos...
Like animals, cyanobacteria possess what kind o...
The ocean is the largest marine biome. it is a ...
What two tubes extend from the upper corners of...
What term describes a wave in which particles o...
Exemplified by rusty iron, what process is defi...
What is a renewable resource that can take thou...
Impenetrable what underlies the soil of the for...
What is the term for when two opposing processe...
What term describes the number and kinds of spe...
What energy is stored in a person or object? po...
What do we call a peptide hormone composed of n...
Which lymphoid organ is situated in the upper c...
What is calculated by subtracting the smallest ...
Birds actually have two basic types of feathers...
What is the name for the process of charging an...
Labor is the muscular contractions to expel the...
What are topographic maps that show water depth...
         What is the radula made mostly of? chitin
Energy transferred solely due to a temperature ...
        In which organ does a baby develop? uterus
What part of an experiment or other investigati...
The intentional release or spread of agents of ...
If pressure is exerted on the rock from one dir...
What term is used to describe the average weath...
A long chain of monosaccharides linked by glyco...
How do genes located on separate nonhomologous ...
What type of mass movement is a sudden movement...
What consists of structures that produce eggs a...
Lactic acid fermentation is common in muscle ce...
How many sets of chromosomes does each somatic ...
Nonflowering vascular plants have three basic t...
What is the most common plant-like protist? uni...
What biochemicals mediate changes in target cel...
New land can be created when what happens to a ...
To calculate acceleration without a change in d...
What is reduced and forms part of the gelatinou...
What type of relationship is parasitism? symbio...
What two things are used in optical instruments...
What physical property of matter reflects how c...
What type of boiling point do nonmetals normall...
Coxal glands collect liquid waste from what? blood
The main organs of the cardiovascular system ar...
What substance flows over the land from precipi...
Most turtle bodies are covered by a special bon...
What device uses an electromagnet to change ele...
What causes the particles of medium to move par...
Which state of matter lacks a fixed volume, fix...
What type of cell transmits electrical impulses...
 What is the force pushing a rocket called? thrust
In headwater streams, what plant process is mos...
What is the term that refers to stored chemical...
The process of photosynthesis ultimately gets p...
A binary molecular compound is a molecular comp...
Within the first 8 weeks of gestation, a develo...
What goes through different larval stages? crus...
What is the major cause of chronic respiratory ...
Monotremes, marsupials, and placental mammals a...
What type of mammal gives birth to young that n...
What is the measure of how closely molecules ar...
What is the leading cause of lung cancer? tobac...
The golgi removes some sugar monomers and subst...
Parenchymal, collenchymal, and sclerenchymal ce...
What is the name of the location in which a str...
What disease occurs when cells in the breast gr...
What process refers to the changes that occur i...
Alkenes can react with what to form alcohols? w...
Wind blown sand contributes to what type of ero...
Bases are ionic compounds consisting of hydroxi...
What causes the menstrual cycle to be repeated?...
What happens when turgid cells in a nonwoody ti...
What is the waxy substance that epidermal cells...
What is the length of the route between two poi...
According to the first law of thermodynamics, w...
What are the three primary pigment colors? cyan...
How do organophostbate pesticides work? inhibit...
In the case of a light bulb, electricity is con...
Where in relation to the home, are levels of vo...
Density and pressure of air decreases with what...
Energy is absorbed in the process of converting...
Images in what type of mirror are reversed left...
What do cells produce as they age? proto-oncogenes
The body of the simplest sponges takes the shap...
Laid on dry land by reptiles, amniotic eggs hav...
What three rs represent the steps that you pers...
What is the process that allows organisms with ...
What is the term for a substance that increases...
What type of compounds can form crystals? ionic...
In grazing, a predator partially eats but does ...
Bone tissues include compact bone, spongy bone,...
What type of bacteria causes the disease called...
Studies have shown that not only does reproduct...
What are the two most common causes of diseases...
Organic compounds are defined as covalently bon...
What drives the turbine in a thermonuclear reac...
What is the term for physicians and scientists ...
   Where are temperatures the lowest? at the poles
Protecting the surface of metal prevents what? ...
What type of tissues are major barriers to the ...
Trash that gets into fresh and saltwater waterw...
What is the term for genes that control the exp...
In vertebrates, what tissue is a type of connec...
Red blood cells don't have a nucleus. this allo...
The number of electron pairs that hold two atom...
What occurs when the immune system makes an inf...
What energy source, now making a comeback, has ...
What is it called when the nucleus of an atom s...
The curie (ci) is one measure of the rate of wh...
A unique type of organism is also known as what...
Snakes use what anatomical structure to smell s...
What chemical element helps forms strong bones ...
The limit to how much solute will dissolve in a...
What occurs when hot magma transforms rock that...
What term refers to entities, events or powers ...
What causes an elastic force in springs? stretc...
What effect is responsible for flight paths loo...
Wetlands are environments in which the soil is ...
When the ground absorbs the water and it settle...
Some metabolic pathways release what by breakin...
What is the smallest portion of a crystal latti...
What is one major cause of skin cancer? ultravi...
Which important decomposers are known to live j...
In the scientific method, what is the initial, ...
What is the name of an element with a different...
Nitrogen and sulfur oxides form what type of ra...
Polyester fabric's resistance to wrinkling come...
What term refers to the sequence of community a...
What is the network of fibers that organizes st...
Decreasing the volume of a gas and keeping ever...
What evolutionary strategy enables substantial ...
The cells of the blastocyst form an inner cell ...
How do all musical instruments create sound? vi...
What system disorders include kidney stones, ki...
What type of respiration has the advantage of r...
Major climate types are based on what two thing...
When amino acids bind together, they form a lon...
What type of cells does meiosis produce? haploi...
Organisms that lack both a nucleus and membrane...
What happens to most of the energy in a trophic...
What is the name for a specific amount of solut...
What is freshwater below the earth's surface ca...
What forms when crystals precipitate out from a...
What do people build to protect areas from floo...
What system of the body is responsible for ulti...
What's it called when there's a sudden flow of ...
Which zone is located below 200 meters from the...
Food chewed evenly during mastication moisten a...
Photosynthesis is initiated by what hitting pla...
What is the process of drawing general conclusi...
Name the fibrous joint in which two parallel bo...
What's the best way humans can conserve water? ...
Although fewer in number than chemical synapses...
What consists of a nitrogen atom bonded to some...
  When do hammerhead sharks usually hunt? at night
What types of glands do only female mammals hav...
What is the unit used to measure air pressure? ...
In which stage does the chromatin condense into...
What is the upper-most atmosphere known as? the...
Reproduction that doesn't involve a male gamete...
What is the term for an electronic component th...
    What is another term for life science? biology
What type of cartilage contains no collagen? la...
In prokaryotes, what are the regions called tha...
What instrument has a resolution many times gre...
The temperature at which the individual ions ha...
What play several important roles in the human ...
What is a measure that has both size and direct...
What is to blame for water’s boiling point (100...
Carbonic acid decomposes easily at room tempera...
What form when a single atom gains or loses ele...
In earthworms, the skin serves as what type of ...
Catalytic converters used on motor vehicles bre...
Processing of filtrate in the proximal tubule h...
What helps represent age-sex structure of the p...
Large viruses began as what type of cells insid...
How can you calculate the density of matter? by...
Frogs and toads have long back legs which are s...
Different regions of the cerebral cortex can be...
What is the term for a change in the inherited ...
What type of diseases do antibiotics not affect...
Which system carries out long-distance transpor...
     How do reptiles typically reproduce? sexually
All organisms must adapt to what in order to su...
Biochemical compounds that include sugars, star...
            What emerges from an insect egg? larva
What can protons and neutrons be broken down in...
What is the name of the stage of life when a ch...
What part of the brain is divided from front to...
Because their cells are arranged in bundles, th...
What resource is considered nonrewable for huma...
What in orange juice makes it taste sour? citri...
What scientist created the modern system for cl...
What will be the effect to an organism if its h...
Since warmer molecules have more energy, they a...
If only blue light strikes green leaves what ha...
Which type of animal creates useful substances ...
Stringed instruments can help show the relation...
Ectotherms undergo a variety of changes at the ...
Convex lenses are thicker in the middle than at...
What are magnesium carbonate, aluminum hydroxid...
 What type of taste do bases normally have? bitter
Which body part helps roundworm prevent their b...
The maintenance of constant conditions in the b...
What is the term for tough protein fibers that ...
What is the study of macroscopic properties, at...
Bones, cartilage, and ligaments make up what an...
What is the first part of the large intestine c...
What occurs when nature reclaims areas formerly...
To solubilize the fats so that they can be abso...
When the hemoglobin loses its oxygen, it change...
How are weather patterns formed? uneven heating...
Boyle discovered that what property of a gas is...
What amazing machines smash particles that are ...
The interaction of what opposite factors descri...
What is caused by differences in density at the...
What is the layer of tissue between the body an...
Well suited to absorb water and dissolved miner...
What is the major artery of the body, taking ox...
What do you call a growing mass of cancerous ce...
 What is the major intracellular cation? potassium
The enzyme pepsin plays an important role in th...
What remains a constant of radioactive substanc...
Terrestrial ecosystems, also known for their di...
High explosives create shock waves that exceed ...
What do you call a structure composed of two or...